Page 1 of 8 
 
TREC-2010 Legal Track - Interactive Task 
Topic-Specific Guidelines - Topic 301 
Updated: 09/29/10 
 
 
1.  Introduction - The Purpose and Use of this Document 
This document is intended to clarify the intent and scope of Topic 301 featured in the TREC-
2010 Legal Track‟s Interactive Task.  The document is a summary of the guidance that the Topic 
Authority for Topic 301 gave to the participating teams in the course of their work on the task.  It 
is intended to guide the volunteer assessors in their review of documents contained in the 
evaluation samples. 
The Interactive Task tests how effective participating teams are at replicating a Topic 
Authority‟s conception of relevance across a test population of documents.1  In assessing the 
sampled documents on the basis of which the teams‟ efforts will be evaluated, it is vital that the 
documents be reviewed in accordance with the Topic Authority‟s conception of relevance, as 
outlined in this document.  The criteria specified herein represent the Topic Authority‟s 
conception of relevance and are the criteria by which assessors should judge the relevance of the 
documents they review.  
While the criteria specified in this document seek to clarify the scope of the topic, it is to be 
expected that assessors will, in the course of their review, encounter documents that prompt 
questions that are not addressed by the criteria outlined below.  In such instances, the assessors 
are asked to submit their questions to us via the link on the review platform; we will provide 
answers to such questions as soon as possible. 
Please note that this document is intended to provide topic-specific guidance for determining 
relevance.  Guidance on general procedures for conducting the assessment exercise is provided 
in a companion document (the “„How-To‟ Guide for Assessors”).  Again, assessors with any 
questions, procedural or topic-specific, should not hesitate to email us their questions. 
 
2.  Statement and General Characterization of the Topic 
The document request that is the basis for Topic 301 is stated as follows (see Complaint K). 
All documents or communications that describe, discuss, refer to, report on, or 
relate to onshore or offshore oil and gas drilling or extraction activities, whether 
past, present or future, actual, anticipated, possible or potential, including, but not 
limited to, all business and other plans relating thereto, all anticipated revenues 
                                                           
1  For purposes of this document, the words “relevant” and “responsive” are interchangeable. 
Page 2 of 8 
 
therefrom, and all risk calculations or risk management analyses in connection 
therewith. 
The request targets documents that fall into one or more of three categories: 
1. Any documents related to the business of onshore or offshore oil and gas drilling or 
extraction activities. 
2. Business Plans and other documents providing information regarding revenues from oil 
and gas drilling or extraction activities. 
3. Documents reflecting risk calculations or risk management analyses about oil and gas 
drilling or extraction activities. 
 
3.  Guidelines for Determining Responsiveness  
 
As explained in the “How-To” Guide, the Topic Authority in this exercise plays the part of a 
senior attorney overseeing a large document production.  An attorney in that role must weigh 
his/her obligations under the document request, as well as the risks of  having the completeness 
and accuracy of the production challenged in court.  The outcome of these considerations is 
found in the topic characterization (above) and the guidelines provided below.   
Documents that discuss, or are evidence of, the following subject matter are to be considered 
responsive for purposes of this exercise. 
 3.1.  Responsive Subject Matter, Topic 301 Generally.   
3.1.1. Each document is to be evaluated for responsiveness within the “four-
corners” of the document.  Responsiveness should not be speculative.  A 
document must provide responsive information without requiring the 
consideration of tangential information. 
3.1.2. There are no date restrictions that apply to this topic.  Each document is to 
be assessed for responsiveness regardless of its date. 
3.1.3. Drafts or redlined versions of documents responsive to this topic should 
also be considered responsive.  Legal privileges should not be considered 
when assessing responsiveness to this topic. 
3.1.4. All documents responsive to this topic, regardless of which category or 
categories they fall within, must contain substantive evidence related to 
the business of or activities surrounding oil and gas drilling or extraction. 
3.1.5. Documents may relate to the business of oil and gas drilling and extraction 
anywhere in the world, not just in the United States. 
Page 3 of 8 
 
3.1.6. Documents responsive to this topic may discuss either or both onshore or 
offshore oil and gas drilling or extraction activities.  This would include 
documents discussing the transportation of oil and/or gas along pipelines. 
3.1.7. All documents responsive to this topic should relate specifically to 
activities performed by the company, not just to general industry activity 
or the business of oil and gas drilling or extraction generally.  Documents 
that discuss oil and gas drilling or extraction activities generally, or as 
applicable to the industry at large, without specifically referencing activity 
performed by the company are nonresponsive. 
 
 3.2.  Documents Responsive to Topic 301, Category 1.   
3.2.1. Documents that discuss the company‟s actual past or present oil and gas 
drilling or extraction activities are responsive.   
3.2.2. Documents that discuss the company‟s planned or anticipated future oil 
and gas drilling or extraction activities are responsive even if the future 
activity is not carried out. 
3.2.3. Documents that discuss possible or potential oil and gas drilling or 
extraction activities to be undertaken by the company are responsive even 
if the activity is not carried out.   
 
 3.3.  Documents Responsive to Topic 301, Category 2.   
3.3.1. Documents must discuss revenue derived from oil and gas drilling or 
extraction activities.   
3.3.2. Documents may be “high-level” or “company-wide” documents that have, 
as a component, a discussion of revenue derived from oil and gas drilling 
or extraction activities.  A document may be responsive to this topic even 
if it covers a much broader report on or discussion about financial 
information. 
 
 3.4.  Documents Responsive to Topic 301, Category 3. 
3.4.1. Documents must involve a risk analysis or risk calculation of the 
company‟s oil and gas drilling or extraction activities.   
 
Page 4 of 8 
 
4.  Examples of Responsive and Nonresponsive Documents 
 4.1.  Topic 301 Generally. 
  4.1.1.  Examples of Responsive documents. 
 Documents involving offshore drilling by Mariner Energy, a Louisiana-based 
petroleum exploration and production company partially owned by the 
company. 
 Documents involving offshore drilling by BHLP. 
 Documents discussing Project Seabreeze. 
 Minutes or reports that discuss oil and gas drilling or extraction activity by the 
company or any subsidiaries. 
 Documents about the UBP Task Force. 
 
  4.1.2.  Examples of Nonresponsive documents. 
 Newspaper articles and other third-party media coverage, including auto-
generated emails (e.g. NY Times Daily News Summary), about oil and gas 
drilling or extraction generally or about the oil and gas industry, unless they 
are forwarded onwards with substantive comments by company employees 
that tie the articles to the company‟s activities. 
 Sections of the Code of Federal Regulations (“CFR”) relating to the regulation 
of oil and gas drilling or extraction. 
 Testimony of government officials (e.g. Alan Greenspan) regarding the oil 
and gas industry. 
 Deposition transcripts of company employees are nonresponsive, unless they 
specifically discuss the company‟s oil and gas drilling or extraction activities, 
revenues therefrom, or risk analyses in connection therewith. 
 Documents related to interactions with political figures discussing policy 
considerations relevant to the oil and gas industry. 
 Documents from the US WTO promoting open markets for energy services, 
including oil and gas drilling. 
 Documents about Indian Mesa, a wind energy related entity. 
 The company‟s document retention notice. 
 A calendar entry or meeting request or notice stating nothing further than the 
time, place, and attendees for a meeting with industry participation.   
 A list of companies, some of which provide oil and gas drilling services, with 
no further context. 
Page 5 of 8 
 
 A list of outside counsel who are assigned to various contracts with companies 
who engage in oil and gas extraction activities. 
 The company‟s response to an RFP for IT solutions. 
 Documents that discuss staffing or headcount for the company‟s oil and gas 
drilling or extraction businesses. 
 
 4.2.  Topic 301, Category 1.   
  4.2.1.  Examples of Responsive documents. 
 Weekly internal reports that discuss, among other topics, the company‟s oil 
and gas drilling or extraction activities. 
 Internal company newsletters, including “EnTouch,” that discuss, among 
other topics, the company‟s oil and gas drilling or extraction activities. 
 Issues of BTU Weekly that discuss, among other topics, the company‟s actual 
or planned activity related to oil and gas drilling or extraction. 
 Shareholder presentations, financial presentations, or reports that discuss the 
company‟s oil and gas drilling or extraction activities. 
 Press releases, Qs&As, and talking points that discuss the company‟s oil and 
gas drilling or extraction activities. 
 Construction Agency Agreement that relates to constructing a facility for, 
among other things, the extraction of gas. 
 Plans to survey, analyze and process 3D seismic data for oil and gas 
extraction. 
 A list of generators and suppliers. 
 Documents discussing the company‟s plans for oil and gas drilling or 
extraction activities in specific locations nationally or internationally. 
 
  4.2.2.  Examples of Nonresponsive documents. 
 Communication from the company‟s corporate counsel providing a 
“representative recitation of services” for core company trademarks. 
 Memo from the US WTO, promoting open markets for energy services, 
including oil and gas drilling. 
 A list of companies, some which provide oil and gas drilling services. 
 Weekly natural gas reports prepared by third parties that do not specifically 
mention the company‟s oil and gas drilling or extraction activities. 
 
Page 6 of 8 
 
 4.3.  Topic 301, Category 2.   
  4.3.1.  Examples of Responsive documents. 
 Copies of the company‟s 10Ks and 10Qs and other SEC filings. 
 Copies of the company‟s audited financial statements. 
 Copies of the company‟s annual reports. 
 Copies of the company‟s business plans, profit plans and other documents that 
provide information on the company‟s assets, liabilities, equity, income and 
expenses, some of which relates to oil and gas drilling or extraction activities. 
 Shareholder presentations or reports that discuss the company‟s revenues 
derived from oil and gas drilling or extraction activities. 
 Press releases, Qs&As, and talking points that discuss the company‟s revenues 
derived from oil and gas drilling or extraction activities. 
 Documents discussing the company‟s financial goals and objectives. 
 Spreadsheets of invoices or payments, some of which involve oil and gas 
drilling companies.   
 Agreements related to revenues generated from the business of oil and gas 
drilling or extraction including, without limitation, Gas Purchase Agreements, 
Purchase and Sale Agreements, Termination Agreements, Gas Gathering 
Agreements, Field Services Agreements, Gas Turbine Purchase Agreements, 
Compression Administration Agreements, Energy Management Services 
Agreements. 
 Enron Online Management Report related to gas trading and other documents 
related to the price of natural gas. 
 Batch funding requests. 
 Management‟s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations. 
 Documents showing financial transactions around a project, Raptor-I, 
involving oil and gas exploration and transportation. 
 Memo re EES Canada discussing potential revenue related to deregulation. 
 Global Contract Report indicating volumes and value of oil contracts; Credit 
Letter Log indicating volumes and levels of crude oil. 
 Spreadsheets of financial reconciliations or profits and losses tied to the 
company‟s oil and gas drilling or extraction activities. 
 
Page 7 of 8 
 
  4.3.2.  Examples of Nonresponsive documents. 
 Derivatives Trading Agreements and related documents. 
 
 4.4.  Topic 301, Category 3.   
  4.4.1.  Examples of Responsive documents. 
 Risk management policies, proposals, and other documents that discuss 
operational risk management. 
 Probabilistic Risk Assessment (“PRA”) or other systematic or comprehensive 
safety assessments or analyses to evaluate risks. 
 Documents that assess the magnitude or severity of the possible adverse 
consequence(s) of an event or failure and the likelihood or probability of 
occurrence of each consequence.  
 Regulatory Risk Management Reports. 
 Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure Plans (“SPCC”).   
 Emails that evaluate candidates to handle risk management. 
 Risk Assessment and Deal Approval Sheet for Energy and Facilities 
Management. 
 Memo re Legal Risks re Storage and Gas Purchase Agreement, particularly 
the sections on environmental liability and abatement. 
 Enterprise risk management (“ERM”) documents. 
 Interconnect Agreements that discuss the delivery of the commodity, rather 
than drilling or extraction and allocate risks to each party. 
 Documents involving risk assessment of emissions. 
 Documents assessing risk of supply-side strategies. 
 External due diligence for a pipeline project in Illinois. 
 Documents referencing Standard Industrial Classification “SIC” codes as they 
relate to the company‟s oil and gas drilling or extraction business. 
 
  4.4.2.  Examples of Nonresponsive documents. 
 Documents that discuss risk associated with corporate activities other than the 
company‟s oil and gas drilling or extraction. 
 Documents that discuss risk associated only tangentially with oil and gas 
drilling or extraction, such as investment in or trading of securities involving 
oil and gas drilling or extraction. 
Page 8 of 8 
 
 Risk Assessment and Control Deal Approval Sheets and other documents that 
assess financial and legal risk pertaining to a financial transaction, rather than 
risk associated with oil and gas drilling or extraction. 
 Material generated by third-party hosted risk management conferences, 
including agendas and brochures. 
 Project Merlin Due Diligence Report and other documents that analyze 
proposed corporate acquisitions or perform due diligence into financial and 
legal soundness of the proposed acquisition rather than evaluate oil and gas 
drilling or extraction activity. 
Page 1 of 3 
 
TREC-2010 Legal Track - Interactive Task 
Topic-Specific Guidelines - Topic 302 
Updated: 11/09/10 
1.  Introduction - The Purpose and Use of this Document 
This document is intended to clarify the intent  and scope of Topic 302 featured in the TREC-
2010 Legal Track’s Interactive Task.  The document is a summary of the guidance that the Topic 
Authority for Topic 302 gave to the participating teams in the course of their work on the task.  It 
is intended to guide th e volunteer assessors in their review  of documents contained in the 
evaluation samples. 
The Interactive Task tests how effective par ticipating teams are at replicating a Topic 
Authority’s conception of relevance across a test popula tion of documents. 1  In assessing the 
sampled documents on the basis of which the teams’ efforts will be evaluated, it is vital that the 
documents be reviewed in accordance with the T opic Authority’s conception of relevance, as 
outlined in this document.  The criteria specified herein represent the Topic Authority’s 
conception of relevance and are th e criteria by which assessors should judge the relevance of the 
documents they review.  
While the criteria specified in this document seek to clarify the scope of the topic, it is to be 
expected that assessors will, in the course of  their review, encounter documents that prompt 
questions that are not addressed by the criteria ou tlined below.  In such instances, the assessors 
are asked to submit their questions to us via the link on the review platform; we will provide 
answers to such questions as soon as possible. 
Please note that this document is intended to provide topic-specific guidance for determining 
relevance.  Guidance on general procedures fo r conducting the assessment exercise is provided 
in a companion document (the “‘How-To’ Guide for Assessors”).  Again, assessors with any 
questions, procedural or topic-specific, should not hesitate to email us their questions. 
2.  Statement and General Characterization of the Topic 
The document request that is the basis for Topic 302 is stated as follows (see Complaint K). 
All documents or communications that de scribe, discuss, refer to, report on, or 
relate to actual, anticipated, possible or potential responses to oil and gas spills, 
blowouts or releases, or pipeline erupt ions, whether past, present or future, 
including, but not limited to, any assessm ent, evaluation, remediation or repair 
activities, contingency plan s and/or environmental disa ster, recovery or clean-up 
efforts.. 
The operative language of this request focuse s on documents or email communications that 
address actual or potential “responses to oil and gas spills,” which would include evaluations of 
the responses to a past spill or other enviro nmental incident including remediation efforts 
                                                           
1  For purposes of this document, the words “r elevant” and “responsive” are interchangeable. 
Page 2 of 3 
 
involving oil and gas; discussions  or evaluations of current or ongoing responses, capabilities or 
remediation efforts; and discussions of plans to potential events and related risks. 
3.  Guidelines for Determining Responsiveness 
As explained in the “How-To” Guide, the Topic Au thority in this exercise plays the part of a 
senior attorney overseeing a la rge document production.  An attorn ey in that role must weigh 
his/her obligations under th e document request, as well as the risks of havi ng the completeness 
and accuracy of the production challenged in cour t.  The outcome of these considerations is 
found in the topic characterization (above) and the guidelines provided below.   
The Topic Authority for Topic 302 interprets th e document request “narrowly” and views the 
operative terms to be “oil spill responses” with a specific focus on documents that involve 
planning for such events and th e analysis of responses such  as “assessments” “contingency 
plans” and “clean up efforts”.  In order to be re levant to the topic, therefore, a document must 
contain both a reference to a pertinent spill incident (hypo thetical or real) and a reference to a 
response (hypothetical or real) to the incident. More specific criteria are as follows. 
3.1. On incidents 
3.1.1. Pertinent incidents are (hypothetical or real) unplanned leaks, spills, or releases of 
oil or gas. 
3.1.2. Planned releases (e.g., a planned gas release) are not relevant. 
3.1.3. Again, reference to a pertinent incident alone does not suffice to make a 
document relevant; in order to be relevant the document must also include reference 
to a response to the incident (as defined in 3.2 below). 
3.2. On responses   
3.2.1. Relevant response activities include the following (hypothetical or real). 
3.2.1.1. Assessments of an incident. 
3.2.1.2. Assessments of response capabilities for an incident. 
3.2.1.3. Contingency plans for an incident. 
3.2.1.4. Remediation efforts. 
3.2.1.5. Training for response to incidents. 
3.2.1.6. Environmental studies and audits that pertain to an incident. 
3.2.2. Also relevant are any documents related to the above activi ties (e.g., discussions 
of training manuals or oil spill response manuals would be relevant). 
3.2.3. Also relevant are evaluations of the e ffectiveness of any of the above response 
activities. 
3.2.4. Bans on oil drilling are not relevant. 
3.3. Additional considerations   
3.3.1. News articles are relevant if they refer bot h to a spill incident and to a response to 
it (in accordance with the above criteria). 
Page 3 of 3 
 
3.3.2. Administrative documents. Admin documents that refer to relevant subject matter 
are relevant. (For example, a scheduling em ail that referred to oil spill training 
would be relevant. Documents related to  an employment application (resumes, 
interview appointments) could be relevant, but  only if they referred to a response to 
a spill incident.) 
3.3.3. Contracts. Contracts that contain terms specifying a party’s response obligations 
in the event of a spill are relevant. 
3.3.3.1. However, terms that specify monetary indemnification requirements in the 
event of a spill do not suffice to make a contract relevant. 
3.3.4. Legal rulings. Discussions of  legal rulings are releva nt only if they contain 
reference to a response to a spill incident (as defined by the above criteria). 
3.3.5. Geographic restrictions. No geographic c onstraints apply to the assessment of 
relevance; i.e., discussions of responses to non-US spills (e.g., the Transredes spill 
in Bolivia) are relevant. 
3.3.5.1. However, discussions of legal obligations under foreign law are not 
relevant. 
3.3.6. Date restrictions. No date constraints a pply to the assessment of relevance (the 
date of a document can be ignored for purposes of assessing relevance). 
3.3.7. On parties other than Enron. The document request is written without a restriction 
to party; accordingly, documents discussi ng any party (Enron or  not) engaging in 
the activities that meet the criteria of relevance are relevant. 
3.3.8. On non-English content. In making a relevance assessment, consider only English 
content; non-English content is not relevant. 
Page 1 of 5 
 
TREC-2010 Legal Track - Interactive Task 
Topic-Specific Guidelines - Topic 303 
Updated: 12/10/10 
1.  Introduction - The Purpose and Use of this Document 
This document is intended to clarify  the intent and scope of Topic 30 3 featured in the TREC -
2010 Legal Track‟s Interactive Task.  The document is a summary of the guidance that the Topic 
Authority for Topic 303 gave to the participating teams in the course of their work on the task.  It 
is i ntended to guide the volunteer assessors in their review of documents contained in the 
evaluation samples. 
The Interactive Task tests how effective participating teams are at replicating a Topic 
Authority‟s conception of relevance across a test population of documents. 1  In assessing the 
sampled documents on the basis of which the teams‟ efforts will be evaluated, it is vital that the 
documents be reviewed in accordance with the Topic Authority‟s conception of relevance, as 
outlined in this document.  The c riteria specified herein represent the Topic Authority‟s 
conception of relevance and are the criteria by which assessors should judge the relevance of the 
documents they review.  
While the criteria specified in this document seek to clarify the scope of th e topic, it is to be 
expected that assessors will, in the course of their review, encounter documents that prompt 
questions that are not addressed by the criteria outlined below.  In such instances, the assessors 
are asked to submit their questions to us via the link on the review platform; we will provide 
answers to such questions as soon as possible. 
Please note that this document is intended to provide topic -specific guidance for determining  
relevance.  Guidance on general procedures for conducting the a ssessment exercise is provided 
in a companion document (the “„ How-To‟ Guide for Assessors”).  Again, a ssessors with any 
questions, procedural or topic-specific, should not hesitate to email us their questions. 
2.  Statement and General Characterization of the Topic 
The document request that is the basis for Topic 303 is stated as follows (see Complaint K). 
All documents or communications that describe, discuss, refer to, report on, or 
relate to activities, plans or efforts (whether past, present or future) aimed, 
intended or directed at lobbying public or other officials regarding any actual, 
pending, anticipated, possible or potential legislation, including but not limited to, 
activities aimed, intended or directed at influencing or affecting any actual, 
pending, anticipated, possible or potential rule, regulation, standard, policy, law or 
amendment thereto. 
The document request is written broadly; covered by the document request (and so to be deemed 
relevant) are any documents pertaining to the Company's efforts, plans, or policies with regard to 
lobbying or with regard to legislation or regulations that are the focus of lobbying efforts.  In the 
                                                           
1  For purposes of this document, the words “relevant” and “responsive” are interchangeable. 
Page 2 of 5 
 
next section we provide specific criteria for determining what is and is not to be considered 
responsive to the request. 
3.  Guidelines for Determining Responsiveness 
As explained in the “How -To” Guide, the Topic Authority in this exercise plays the part of a 
senior attorney overseeing a large document production.  An attorney in that role must weigh 
his/her obligations under the document request, as well as the risks of having the completeness 
and accuracy of the production challenged in court.  The outcome of these considerations is 
found in the topic characterization (above) and the guidelines provided below.   
The specific criteria to be followed in assessing the relevance of documents to Topic 303 are as 
follows. 
3.1. The Company’s lobbying plans, practices, or policies   
3.1.1. Plans and p ractices. Documents pertaining to the Company‟s plans or practices 
with regard to lobbying, whether in the US or abroad, are relevant. 
3.1.1.1. Documents discussing or evidencing Company efforts or practices with 
regard to lobbying are relevant. Also relevant are documents pertaining to the 
Company‟s decisions not to lobby on a particular issue. 
3.1.1.2. Documents discussing plans to utilize media outlets to shape public policy 
are relevant. 
3.1.1.3. Documents discussing talking points intended to influence public discussion 
of pertinent laws or regulations are relevant. 
3.1.1.4. Documents discussing the Company‟s efforts to win approval of planned 
business activities are relevant. 
3.1.1.5. Documents in which there is a mere mention that Enron was a lobbyist (or 
did lobbying) but in which the focus of the document was not on Enron's 
lobbying efforts or plans are not relevant . For ex ample, an ar ticle that 
referenced Enron as “ a leading energy regulation lobbyist” but that went on to 
talk about non -lobbying relating activities (e.g ., the Enron ba nkruptcy) would 
not be relevant. 
3.1.2. Policy documents. Documents referencing the Company‟s poli cies regarding 
lobbying are relevant. 
3.1.3. Administrative documents. Documents pertaining to administrative aspects of the 
Company‟s lobbying efforts are relevant. Examples include the following. 
3.1.3.1. Calendar entries. Calendar entries are relevant, (a) if the meeting is with a 
public official or (b) if the meeting concerns the Company‟s lobbying efforts. 
3.1.3.2. Budget documents. Documents pertaining to the Company‟s budget for 
lobbying activities are relevant. 
3.1.3.3. Reporting documents. Documents reporting on the Company‟s lobbying 
activities (including political contributions) , and the results of those activities, 
are relevant. 
Page 3 of 5 
 
3.1.3.4. Procedural documents. Documents discussing registration of lobbyists as 
lobbyists are relevant. 
3.1.3.5. Employment applications. Resumes, CVs, job interviews for positions at the 
Company with lobbying responsibilities are not relevant. 
3.1.3.6. Signature lines. An email consisting of just a signature line is not relevant. 
3.1.4. Government Affairs (GA) documents. GA documents (or emails from/to GA 
members) are not to be cons idered relevant automatically; their relevance must be 
decided on a case by case basis ( i.e., if they meet the relevance criteria specified 
herein). 
3.1.5. Articles and press releases. 
3.1.5.1. An article, if it is on the topic of Company‟s  lobbying efforts (past, present , 
or future) is relevant. 
3.1.5.2. An a rticle, if it mentions only that the Company is a  lobbyist, is  not 
relevant. 
3.1.5.3. Included under the rubric of articles are : news articles,  Enron newsletter 
articles, editorials, academic papers/articles, and press releases. 
3.1.6. Ordinary (n on-lobbying) business practices and transactions. Documents 
pertaining to business  practices or  transactions that are not the focus of lobbying 
efforts (e.g., a memorandum of u nderstanding outlining the terms of an energy 
transaction, a discussi on of bids on a mineral lease , discussion of (non -lobbying) 
activities related to a trade association) are not relevant. 
3.1.7. Litigation filings. L itigation filings are , generally, not relevant ; if, however,  a 
filing contains information in the colloquy regardi ng the position a party is either 
taking or lobbying a legislative body or public official to take, then it is relevant. 
3.2. Legislation or regulations that are the focus of lobbying efforts   
3.2.1. Changes to laws or regulations. Any discussion  of a change to a law or regulation 
that is  the focus of lobbying activities is relevant (e.g., discussions of the Direct 
Access initiative are relevant). 
3.2.2. Existing laws or regulations  and their application . Discussions regarding  an 
existing law/regulation or its application (e.g., the possibility of a loophole), with no 
reference, explicit or implied, of an effort to change the law/regulation,  are not 
relevant. 
3.2.3. Requests for comment. Reports sent to the Company about a regulatory proposal, 
if they are sent with the intent of prompting feedback, are relevant. 
3.2.4. Legislative summaries. 
3.2.4.1. Legislative summaries , if they contain discussion of regulatory 
interpretations of the legislation and the Company ‟s position on th ose 
interpretations, are relevant. 
3.2.4.2. Legislative summaries, if they contain no discussion of Company‟s position, 
are not relevant. 
Page 4 of 5 
 
3.2.5. Communications with public officials and entities. 
3.2.5.1. Communications with public officials or entities regarding changes to 
regulations, standards, policies, or laws are relevant. 
3.2.5.2. Communications wit h public officials that are part of the Company‟s 
ordinary conduct of business, with no discussion of changes to regulations or 
laws, are not relevant. (E.g., a document discussing the royalty payments due 
for a particular transaction would not be relevant ; on the other hand,  a 
document discussing changes to regulations regarding when royalty pay ments 
are due would be relevant). 
3.2.6. Third party communications regarding regulations or legislation that are the focus 
of lobbying efforts (e.g., a letter from a Sena tor to a Governor or comments made in 
a press conference) are relevant. 
3.2.7. Political landscape. 
3.2.7.1. Public officials. Discussions of the political status of public officials that are 
the focus of lobbying efforts (e.g., key regulators) are relevant. However, a bio 
of a public official, with no reference to the official‟s position on a 
law/regulation that is the focus of lobbying efforts, is not relevant. 
3.2.7.2. Polls. Discussions of polls that pertain to issues that are the focus of 
lobbying efforts are relevant. 
3.2.8. IEP doc uments. The Independent Energy Producers Association (IEP) is a 
lobbying organization. Accordingly, all documents concerning IEP‟s actions/efforts, 
including admin-type documents (e.g., a scheduling email) are relevant. 
3.2.9. Meetings and Conferences. 
3.2.9.1. Meetings. Discussions of meetings of public off icials at which lobbying or 
regulations that are the focus of lobbying are discussed (e.g., the CPUC) are 
relevant. 
3.2.9.2. Conferences. Documents discussing the Company‟s attendance at a 
pertinent conference (e.g., a conferenc e on the California energy crisis) are to 
be assessed as follows. 
3.2.9.2.1. If the Company gives a presentation at the conference: relevant. 
3.2.9.2.2. If the Company merely attends, but it is known that a public official 
also attends: relevant. 
3.2.9.2.3. If the Company merely attends, and there is no indication that a public 
official also attends: not relevant.  
3.2.10. Investigations. Documents discussing investigations of the Company‟s activitie s 
in the California energy markets are not relevant (unless they spe cifically relate to 
lobbying). 
3.2.11. Offshore regulatory conditions. Discussions of political/regulatory environment in 
countries in which Enron could not exert lobbying power are not relevant. 
Page 5 of 5 
 
3.2.12. FERC refund. Documents discussing the FERC‟s decision to require refunds are 
not relevant. 
3.3. Additional Considerations   
3.3.1. Date restrictions . No date constraints apply to the assessment of relevance (the 
date of a document can be ignored for purposes of assessing relevance). 
3.3.2. On parties other than Enron. The document request is written without a restriction 
to party; accordingly, documents discussing any party (Enron or not) engaging in 
the activities that meet the criteria of relevance are relevant. 
3.3.2. On “Enron Mentions” emails. In the document collection, there are instances of 
broadcast emails  to a large number of recipients regarding “Enron mentions”  in 
news articles around the country.  While some of the article s included as 
attachments to such “Enron mentions ” emails  may relate to lobbying or new 
rules/regulations, these articles, when attached to an “Enron Mentions” email, are to 
be assessed as not relevant  to Topic 303  (on the grounds that the focus of the 
“Enron Mentions” news is not  specifically lobbying). This general rule only applies 
to the “Enron mentions”  emails and does not impact instances where a specific 
article or articles are sent to groups. 
3.3.2.1. On follow-ups to an “Enron Mentions” email. T he “Enron Mentions” rule 
extends to f ollow-ups on such email , unless the follow-up specifically relates 
to lobbying activities, plans, or efforts. 
3.3.3. On non-English content. In making a relevance assessment, c onsider only English 
content; non-English content is not relevant. 
Page 1 of 6 
 
TREC-2010 Legal Track – Interactive Task 
Topic-Specific Guidelines – Topic 304 
Updated: 09/29/10 
1.  Introduction – The Purpose and Use of this Document 
This document is intended to clarify the intent and scope of Topic 304 featured in the TREC-
2010 Legal Track‟s Interactive Task.  The document is a summarization of the guidance that the 
Topic Authority for Topic 304 gave to the participating teams in the course of their work on the 
task.  It is intended to guide the volunteer assessors in their review of documents contained in the 
evaluation samples. 
The Interactive Task tests how effective participating teams are at replicating a Topic 
Authority‟s conception of relevance across a test population of documents.1  In assessing the 
sampled documents on the basis of which the teams‟ efforts will be evaluated, it is vital that the 
documents be reviewed in accordance with the Topic Authority‟s conception of relevance.  The 
criteria specified here represent the Topic Authority‟s conception of relevance and are the 
criteria by which assessors should judge the relevance of the documents they review. 
While the criteria specified in this document seek to clarify the scope of the topic, it is to be 
expected that assessors will, in the course of their review, encounter documents that prompt 
questions that are not addressed by the criteria outlined below. In such instances, the assessors 
are asked to submit their questions to us via the link on the review platform; we will provide 
answers to such questions as soon as possible. 
Please note that this document is intended to provide topic-specific guidance for determining 
relevance.  Guidance on general procedures for conducting the assessment exercise is provided 
in a companion document (the “„How To‟ Guide for Assessors”).  Again, assessors with any 
questions, procedural or topic-specific, should not hesitate to email us their questions. 
2.  Statement and General Characterization of the Topic 
Topic 304 is based on the following document request: 
“all documents or communications that are subject to a claim of attorney-client privilege, 
work-product, or other any other applicable privilege or protection, whether or not they 
are responsive to any of the [other] document requests….”     
This request seeks the identification of documents that are subject to protection from production 
iin litigation pursuant to the attorney-client privilege or as trial preparation materials under Fed. 
R. Civ. P. 26, otherwise known as “work product” materials.  Together, these types of documents 
are generically known as “privileged” documents.    
                                                           
1 For purposes of this document, the words “relevant” and “responsive” are interchangeable.  
Page 2 of 6 
 
3.  Guidelines for Determining Relevance 
3.1.   Background on Attorney-Client and Work Product Materials   
To be protected by the attorney-client privilege, a document must meet four factors.  It must 
a) be a communication b) between “privileged persons” c) made with respect to legal advice or 
services d) with an expectation of confidentiality.   For our purposes, all the documents you 
encounter in this exercise will meet the first requirement of being a “communication.”    
Privileged persons include counsel (lawyers) and client.   In this exercise, the client includes 
the company and its employees.  The lawyers can be either in-house counsel (lawyers employed 
directed by the company) or outside counsel (lawyers who practice at a firm or otherwise not 
through being employed by the client). Communications between privileged persons, therefore, 
can include messages between counsel and an employee or employees, between a lawyer and 
another lawyer or lawyers, or between an employee and other employees where they are 
discussing a matter of legal advice.    
To be protected as an attorney-client privileged communication, a document must be related 
to a request for legal advice.   That is, the communication must be for the primary purpose of 
seeking, rendering, communicating, or otherwise obtaining legal advice or a related legal service, 
such as drafting a contract.  Hence, communications that provide or seek confidential client 
information necessary to facilitate the rendition of legal advice with respect to a specific question 
can also be privileged.   
Finally, the attorney-client privilege requires strict confidentiality.  If the communication 
involves any independent, third party other than counsel and the client or its employees, it is 
quite rare that such communication will be protected under the attorney-client privilege unless 
the other party is not truly independent, such as an advertising agency subject to the same legal 
rules as the client.    
Documents can also be protected from discovery if they represent or disclose “work 
product,” 
that is, a) materials prepared b) by employees or counsel c) in anticipation of litigation that are 
kept c) confidential from current litigation adversaries.  For purposes of this exercise, every 
document you review will meet the requirement of being “material,” that is, a company record or 
tangible thing.   
Work product materials need not be, but often are, prepared by a client‟s lawyers while they 
are preparing for litigation or under such lawyers‟ direction.  Whether or not a lawyer is 
expressly involved in generating the document, the important decision is determining whether a 
document was prepared “in anticipation of litigation.”    
Page 3 of 6 
 
For purposes of determining whether a document is protected by the work product doctrine, 
“litigation” means any types of adversarial proceeding in which witnesses are put under oath or 
in which a participant is allowed to submit counterarguments or rebuttal evidence or testimony.  
Hence, litigation can include judicial, administrative, regulatory or legislative proceedings in 
which the parties have the right to either (1) cross-examine witnesses, or (2) to present evidence 
or information to counter subject an opposing party‟s presentation.  If the litigation is currently 
pending, materials prepared for that proceeding is protected.  To be “reasonably anticipated” 
litigation, such a proceeding must be identifiable, imminent, likely or probable.  If a claim 
against a client can be articulated with specificity, litigation is also “reasonably anticipated” for 
purposes of claiming work product protection.   
Confidentiality of the material is also required for the work product doctrine to protect it.  
But that confidentiality requirement is not as strict as under the attorney-client privilege.  Hence, 
where it is consistent with otherwise confidential trial preparation and not shared with current 
adversaries in the case, litigation preparation materials can still be protected if they are shared 
with the likes of advertisers, insurers, public relations advisers and other consultants.  So long as 
there is no expectation that the person with whom the material is shared would have an interest 
in providing it to current adversaries, the work product is still protected.   
Work product materials are usually recognizable in two forms, so-called fact or opinion work 
product.  Opinion work product includes the mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal 
theories of an attorney or other representative of a party concerning the litigation.  For instance, 
if someone representing the client, whether employee or counsel, ranks certain facts or potential 
claims or witnesses in a case in order of importance, that listing would be opinion work product.  
Documents that are related to considerations of litigation strategy are also protected as opinion 
work product.  All other materials prepared in anticipation of litigation is considered fact or 
“ordinary” work product.  Either type of material is protected under the work product doctrine 
and both should be marked as protected under Topic 304.   
 Documents may be subject to one or the other protection, either as attorney-client privileged 
or as work product, both protections, or neither protection.  To ensure accuracy, each document 
must be analyzed for both protections.  If it is subject to either protection or both, mark the 
document as relevant to Topic 304.  If the document is subject to neither protection, mark it as 
not relevant to Topic 304.   
3.2.   Definitions and Types of Relevant Documents 
Information in any form that was created, received, or distributed by an employee or otherwise 
created by the defendant and that relates to the defendant or its business will constitute a 
communication or material potentially subject to the attorney-client privilege or the work product 
protection.  The definition of document is not limited to particular media and includes, for 
example, information contained on paper or microfilm as well as electronically or magnetically 
Page 4 of 6 
 
stored information.  For purposes of this exercise, all writings, drawings, graphs, charts, books, 
and other data compilations which you may encounter should be considered to meet the 
requirements of being a “communication,” “material” or “tangible thing.”    
3.2.1.   Transmitting Documents  For purposes of this exercise, you should assess and 
designate all individual documents (e.g., email or attachment) as privileged or work product 
independently.  In addition, if an attachment is protected as privileged or work product, an email 
to which it is attached should also be marked as protected.   
 
3.2.2.   Documents Subject to Redaction  If an entire document is not subject to protection as 
attorney-client communication or work product, the portion(s) of the document that could be 
protected are sometimes “redacted,” that is, blacked out before being produced to an opponent in 
actual litigation.   Because redaction was not a part of TREC Legal Track 2010, you should 
apply the following rule:  if any part of the document would be subject to redaction, the entire 
document should be marked as privileged.    
 
For instance, because draft contracts are most often shared with the other side negotiating the 
agreement, the only portions of draft contracts, including those that are interlineated with 
changes, that are protectable are the portions that disclose a confidential request for legal advice 
or an express piece of legal advice.  If a draft contract contains such an interlineated piece of or 
request for legal advice, the entire draft contract should be marked privileged.   
 
3.2.3.   Topical Documents   Documents that discuss or list lawyers for the client (whether at 
law firms or in-house) or the assignments on which they are working are not privileged or 
protected as work product unless they otherwise meet all the other requirements of one or the 
other of those protections.    
 
3.3.   Additional Guiding Principles 
 There are no date restrictions that apply to this topic.  Assess a document as privileged or 
work product (or not) regardless of its date. 
 As explained in the "How-To" guide, the Topic Authority, in this exercise, plays the part 
of a senior attorney overseeing a large document production.  An attorney in that role 
must weigh the client‟s (here, the defendants‟) obligations under the document request as 
well as the risks of having the completeness and accuracy of the production challenged in 
court.  The outcome of these considerations is the topic definition provided in this 
document.  While assessors may find, in some instances, that the definition of 
responsiveness includes some documents that do not appear to bear on the allegations in 
the Complaint, assessors should keep in mind that the Topic Authority has defined the 
topic somewhat broadly so as to minimize risk of challenge or sanction.  Assessors 
Page 5 of 6 
 
should adhere to the guidelines in this document even if the document would not 
otherwise be considered relevant to the litigation.     
 Generally, if an attorney-client communication is (1) disclosed to independent third 
parties, or (2) broadly distributed among company employees (especially employees 
beyond those with a need for the information) with no indication that the employee 
recipients are expected to keep the communication confidential, the communication is no 
longer confidential for purposes of applying the privilege.  
 Distribution lists, record custodians, confidentiality labels and other express limitations 
on further distribution must be considered in making the determination whether a 
Company Record remained “confidential” after it was created.   
 If a lawyer is requesting an employee to prepare some material for the lawyer or to 
provide the employee‟s best recollection about a subject, consider related context (e.g., 
the transmitting or responding email) to determine whether the work product document 
would protect the document.    
4.  Questions and Clarifications  
4.1.   Would a document be privileged if it was created for a business purposes as well as a 
litigation purpose? 
Yes.  Material may be protected as work product so long as there is a single, current litigation 
based reason for creating the document, even if there is also be a business purposes for the 
document.    
4.2.   Would a document be protected if it is a communication from a lawyer with respect to 
business advice? 
No.  Business advice, even from a lawyer, if not protected under the attorney-client privilege.   If 
the communication renders both business advice and legal advice in separate portions or 
sentences of the document, it should be marked as protected.   If the business and legal advice 
are intertwined, you should only mark the document as privileged if the legal advice 
predominates over the business advice after using your best judgment.   
4.3.  Would a legal bill be privileged if it merely identifies the lawyer who worked for the 
company and the topics on which the lawyer worked?    
No.   Legal bills are only protected if they reveal a confidential request for or piece of legal 
advice or otherwise reveal litigation strategy for pending or anticipated cases. 
4.4  If a communication is related to a public event in the nature of continuing legal 
education, is it privileged?   
Page 6 of 6 
 
No.  CLE classes are generally not related to confidential legal advice or litigation planning for a 
client and so are not protected. 
4.5  Are communications with lobbyists privileged? 
Generally, no.   Lobbying materials and lobbying advice are generally considered business 
communications and business advice and so are not protected.   Use caution, however, because 
many lobbyists are also lawyers who may from time to time render legal advice as part of their 
lobbying service, particularly if they opine upon what effect a current piece of legislation may 
have upon some specific aspect of the client‟s operations. 