TREC–2010 Legal Track
Interactive Task Guidelines
Abstract
In 2010, the TREC Legal Track will again be featuring an interactive task (along with a learning
task, for more on which see the Learning Task Guidelines [4]). This document contains guidelines for
this year’s interactive task, with particular focus on aspects of task design that are new in 2010; the
document also covers speciﬁc steps that those interested in participating should take to begin the task.
1 Introduction
In 2008, the TREC Legal Track, seeking to develop an exercise that modeled more completely and accurately
the task of reviewing documents for responsiveness to a request for production in civil litigation, introduced
a redesigned interactive task (see the 2008 Interactive Task Guidelines [1]). The task saw participation from
four teams (two academic and two commercial) and produced interesting results, both with regard to the
eﬀectiveness of the approaches evaluated and with regard to the evaluation design itself (see Overview of the
TREC 2008 Legal Track [6]).
In 2009, the Legal Track again featured the interactive task, this time with a new test collection and with
a few minor modiﬁcations to the task design (see the 2009 Interactive Task Guidelines [2]). The 2009 exercise
saw participation from eleven teams (three academic and eight commercial) and again produced interesting
results, both from the perspective of retrieval methodology and from the perspective of evaluation design
(see Overview of the TREC 2009 Legal Track [5]).
In 2010, the Legal Track will again be featuring the interactive task. This document describes key
features of the design of the task. We begin with a brief review of the main elements of the interactive task
(Section 2), then turn to a discussion of modiﬁcations (e.g., featuring a privilege topic) we are introducing
for the 2010 exercise (Section 3), and conclude with a summary of the speciﬁc parameters that will deﬁne
the 2010 interactive task (Section 4).
2 Overview of Task
The Legal Track’s interactive task models the conditions and objectives of a review for responsiveness; that
is to say, the task models the conditions and objectives of a search for documents that are responsive to a
request for production that has been served during the discovery phase of a civil lawsuit. A full discussion of
the circumstance modeled and of the general design of the exercise can be found in the 2008 task guidelines [1].
For purposes of the current overview, we brieﬂy summarize the key features of the task.
• Complaint and Topics. Context for the interactive task is provided by a mock complaint that sets
forth the legal and factual basis for the hypothetical lawsuit that motivates the discovery requests
at the heart of the exercise. Associated with the complaint are document requests that specify the
categories of documents which must be located and produced. For purposes of the interactive task,
each of these document requests serves as a separate topic. The goal of a team participating in a
given topic is to retrieve all, and only, documents relevant to that topic (as deﬁned by the “Topic
Authority;” see below). A team may choose to participate in as many, or as few, topics as they wish;
1
track coordinators reserve the right, however, to limit the number of teams that participate in a given
topic in order to avoid placing an undue burden on the Topic Authority assigned to the topic.
• The Topic Authority. A key role in the task is played by the “Topic Authority.” The Topic
Authority plays the role of a senior attorney who is charged with overseeing a client’s response to a
request for production and who, in that capacity, must certify to the court that their client’s response
to the request is complete and correct (commensurate with a reasonable and good-faith eﬀort). In
keeping with that role, it is the Topic Authority who, taking into account considerations of genuine
subject-matter relevance as well as pragmatic considerations of legal strategy and tactics, holds ultimate
responsibility for deciding what is and is not relevant to a target topic (or, in real-world terms, what
is and is not responsive to a document request). The Topic Authority’s role, then, is to be the source
for the authoritative conception of responsiveness that each participating team, in the role of a hired
cohort of manual reviewers or of a vendor of document-retrieval services, will be asked to replicate
across the full document collection. Each topic has a single Topic Authority, and each Topic Authority
has responsibility for a single topic.
• Interaction with the Topic Authority. If it is the Topic Authority who deﬁnes the target (i.e.,
who determines what should and should not be considered relevant to a topic), it is essential that
provision be made for teams to be able to interact with the Topic Authority in order to gain a better
understanding of the Topic Authority’s conception of relevance. In the interactive task, this provision
takes the following form. Each team can ask, for each topic for which it plans to submit results, for
up to 10 hours of a Topic Authority’s time for purposes of clarifying a topic. A team can call upon
a Topic Authority at any point in the exercise, from the kickoﬀ of the task to the deadline for the
submission of results; in the ﬁnal weeks of the exercise, however, the amount of time a team may ask
of a Topic Authority may be restricted (in order to avoid an undue burden on the Topic Authority
in the ﬁnal weeks of the exercise). How a team makes use of the Topic Authority’s time is largely
unrestricted: a team can ask the Topic Authority to pass judgment on exemplar documents; a team
can submit questions to the Topic Authority by email; a team can arrange for conference calls to
discuss aspects of the topic. Teams are not permitted, however, to engage in in-person interaction with
Topic Authorities (on TREC-related matters) in order to avoid giving any possible unfair advantage
to teams with the resources for travel. A further constraint that is placed on communication between
the teams and their designated Topic Authorities is introduced in order to minimize the sharing of
information developed by one team with another; while the Topic Authorities are instructed to be free
in sharing the information they have about their topics, they are asked to avoid volunteering to one
team speciﬁc information that was developed only in the course of interaction with another team.
• Participant submissions. Each team’s ﬁnal deliverable is a binary classiﬁcation of the full population
for relevance to each target topic. Teams are of course free to use relevance ranking as a means of
arriving at their result sets, but the ﬁnal deliverable is a single binary classiﬁcation (relevant/not
relevant) of the full population of documents.
• Eﬀectiveness Metrics. Given the nature of the submissions (sets of documents identiﬁed as relevant
to a topic), we look to set-based metrics to gauge eﬀectiveness. In the interactive task, the metrics
used are Recall, Precision, and, as a summary measure of eﬀectiveness, F1.
• Sampling and Estimation. As in previous years, in order to obtain estimates of eﬀectiveness scores,
we use stratiﬁed sampling and a two-stage sample assessment protocol. Further speciﬁcs are as follows.
– Sampling. The sets of documents submitted by the participants in a topic allow for a straight-
forward submission-based stratiﬁcation of the document collection: one stratum will contain the
documents all participants submitted as relevant, another stratum will contain the documents no
participant submitted as relevant, and other strata will be deﬁned for each of the other possible
submission combinations. If, for example, there are 5 teams participating in a topic, the collection
will be partitioned into 2 5 = 32 strata. In creating samples, strata will be represented largely
2
in keeping with their full-population proportions. In order to ensure that a suﬃcient number of
documents are drawn from all strata, however, some small strata may be over-represented, and
some large strata under-represented, relative to their full-population proportions. Selection within
a stratum is simple random selection without replacement.
– First-Pass Assessment. As in previous years, the contents of each sample will be randomly
assigned to “bins” of approximately 500 documents and these bins will be distributed to teams of
manual assessors. Each assessor, equipped with detailed assessment guidelines and provided with
access to the Topic Authority, will assess each document in his or her bin for relevance to his or
her assigned topic. For the 2010 exercise, in order to improve the accuracy of the ﬁrst-pass review,
and thereby reduce the burden placed on the appeals phase, we plan (i) to introduce a number
of enhancements to the training and support given the ﬁrst-pass assessors and (ii) to introduce
some amount of overlap in the documents assigned to diﬀerent assessors.
– Appeal and Adjudication. No matter how rigorous the quality control regimen of the ﬁrst-pass
assessment, it is to be expected that some errors will remain in the sets of assessments that are the
output of the ﬁrst-pass review. As a corrective measure, the interactive task features an additional
appeal/adjudication phase, whereby teams are given the opportunity to review the results of
the ﬁrst-pass assessment and appeal, to the Topic Authority, any assessments they believe are
incorrect. The Topic Authority then renders a ﬁnal judgment on all appealed assessments. In
2010, an appeals/adjudication phase will again be a a key element of the evaluation protocol.
We will, however, be introducing some modiﬁcations to the appeals procedures in the interest of
improving the eﬃciency and eﬀectiveness of the adjudication phase (see below).
• Reporting. The ﬁnal step in the interactive task, as in other TREC tasks, is reporting on and
discussing the results for the task. The initial discussion takes place in two venues: ﬁrst, at the
TREC annual meeting in November and, second, in papers submitted for inclusion in the TREC 2010
proceedings. Of course, the discussion does not end there, but continues on in other conferences and
publications to which the Legal Track’s participants contribute.
3 New to the 2010 Task
The deﬁning features of the interactive task will remain largely unchanged in 2010. We are, however,
introducing some modiﬁcations designed to make the task more eﬃcient and meaningful to the communities
that participate in the Legal Track. The modiﬁcations are the following.
1. Number of Topics & Number of Teams per Topic. In 2009, we featured seven topics and,
in order to avoid overburdening the Topic Authority, set the maximum number of teams that could
participate in each topic at four. Our experience from the 2009 exercise indicates (a) that we can
increase the maximum number of participants for each topic, without unduly overburdening the Topic
Authority, and (b) that we can improve the eﬃciency of administering the exercise by limiting the
number of topics.
For the 2010 exercise, therefore, we will limit the number of topics to three responsiveness topics and
one privilege topic (see below) and will allow a greater number of teams to participate in each topic.
We believe that this will provide richer data on each topic that is featured and aid in the eﬃciency
with which the task is run.
2. Privilege Topic. In our discussions with 2009 participants and 2009 Topic Authorities, we found
that there was considerable interest in including a privilege topic (i.e., a topic that covered documents
that are subject to a claim of attorney-client privilege, work-product, or other any other applicable
privilege) in the interactive task. We therefore will do so in 2010.
The rules for the privilege topic will be the same as the rules for the responsiveness topics: there will
be a single Topic Authority designated for the topic, teams will be permitted to interact with the
3
Topic Authority, and so on. For purposes of this exercise, the scope of the privilege topic will not be
restricted to what is also responsive to the other topics featured in the task; rather, any document
in the collection that meets the Topic Authority’s deﬁnition of privilege or work product, regardless
of whether or not it is relevant to a responsiveness topic, will count as privileged. For the precise
formulation of the privilege topic, see the 2010 mock complaint and associated topics.
3. Provision for Entirely Manual Submission. Those looking at the results of the Legal Track have
often asked whether or not we have had participation from a team that adopted a traditional linear
manual review as its approach to identifying responsive documents. The answer, at least until this
year, has been No, and one reason for this is likely the fact that to complete a manual review of the
full test collection, in the time allowed to prepare a submission, would require the commitment of more
resources than any potential participant was prepared to commit.
We would, however, like to encourage participation from such teams. Therefore, in order to lower at
least one of the barriers to participation, we will, for the 2010 exercise, permit any entirely manual
approach to review, and be evaluated on, a subset of the full test collection. The subset will consist of
50,000 email messages randomly selected from the full test collection; the subset will be deﬁned by the
coordinators prior to the start of the exercise. In other regards, a manual team will participate on the
same terms as the other teams in the exercise (same topics, same Topic Authorities, same timetable,
and so on). For evaluation purposes, should a manual team participate in a topic, the collection will
be stratiﬁed and sampled so as to allow the estimation of scores both on the subset (for the manual
team) and on the full collection (for the other teams).
Note that the list of messages in the manual subset will be disclosed only to those participants who will
be preparing entirely manual submissions; we do this in order to avoid the possibility that non-manual
participants, being aware of the contents of the manual subset, might focus more of their eﬀorts on
that part of the collection, thereby biasing the results we obtain. We therefore ask that any participant
wishing to prepare an entirely manual submission notify us of their intentions to do so; we will then
release the list of messages in the subset to them.
4. Reporting on Resources Expended. Given that retrieval approaches can vary with respect to
the amount of resources required and given that the 2008 and 2009 interactive tasks found that the
retrieval approaches evaluated varied with respect to eﬀectiveness, a natural follow-up question is: to
what extent do the observed diﬀerences in eﬀectiveness correlate with diﬀerences in the amount of
resources required?
In the 2009 exercise, we took a step toward answering that question by asking that participants
optionally report the amount of person-hours expended in preparing their submissions. We found,
however, that, with the reporting optional, only two of the eleven participants chose to provide data
on hours expended. In 2010, we will make that reporting mandatory. More speciﬁcally, we will require
that participants report, upon submission of their result sets, the following information:
• the approximate number of person-hours expended in preparing their submission;
• the number of documents that were manually reviewed in preparing their submission.
We recognize, of course, that input costs cannot be derived simply by counting up the number of hours
expended or the number of documents reviewed. We recognize, further, that the price of a product or
service is a function of a number of factors independent of input costs and that, therefore, data on the
resources required by a particular approach are not necessarily indicators of how that approach will be
priced in the marketplace. The data we collect, therefore, are simply a gauge of how resource-intensive
a particular approach is and not of the price that the market will attach to a given approach.
5. Substratifying the “All-N” Stratum. Utilizing, as we do, a submission-based stratiﬁcation scheme,
we typically ﬁnd that a very high proportion of the collection (often 0.9 or greater) falls in the “All-N”
stratum, the stratum deﬁned for documents no participating team has deemed relevant. Sampling
4
eﬀectively from this stratum is diﬃcult, as the stratum is large and the frequency of relevant items in
it low (and even more so when, as is often the case, the frequency of relevant items is low even in the
unstratiﬁed collection). While diﬃcult, it is also important, however, in that we want some gauge of
the number of relevant documents missed by all participants.
A partial remedy would be to partition the All-N stratum into two substrata: one containing documents
with a greater likelihood of being found relevant and the other containing documents less likely to be
found relevant. Sampling from the former substratum should be more eﬀective than sampling from
the un-partitioned All-N stratum. This device is only a partial remedy, of course, in that the sampling
challenges remain, probably in a still more acute form, in the substratum holding the documents less
likely to be found relevant. Nevertheless, insofar as the device allows us to gauge more eﬀectively the
number of relevant documents in a salient part of the All-N stratum, it will be a step forward.
In order to take this step, we will be making the following provision for the 2010 interactive task.
Any team not participating in a given topic, but registered for at least one of the tasks in the Legal
Track, is invited to submit a list of documents potentially relevant to the topic. The purpose of such
lists will be to compile a pool of potentially relevant documents, the intersection of which with the
All-N stratum will deﬁne a substratum of documents that, though not identiﬁed as relevant by any
of the active participants in the topic, have some characteristics that caused at least one Legal Track
participant to put them in the potentially relevant category. A team can submit just one such list for
any topic in which it is not a participant, and the deadline for submitting the list is the same as it is
for evaluation submissions.
We expect that, by utilizing input from non-participant teams in this way, we will be able to obtain a
clearer picture of what we know and what we do not know about the All-N stratum.
6. Modiﬁcations to Appeals Procedures. As noted above, a key component of the interactive task, is
an appeals process whereby teams have the opportunity to ask the Topic Authority to adjudicate any
ﬁrst-pass assessments they believe are incorrect (i.e., inconsistent with the Topic Authority’s conception
of relevance). While the appeals mechanism, as implemented in the 2008 and 2009 exercises, has been
reasonably eﬀective at correcting ﬁrst-pass errors (see, for example, the pre- to post-adjudication
changes in scores in the 2009 task [5]), it suﬀers from the drawback that it is (a) time consuming and
(b) dependent on the extent to which participants in a topic choose to utilize the appeals mechanism.
For the 2010 interactive task, in the interest of improving the eﬃciency and eﬀectiveness of the appeals
process, we plan to introduce some modiﬁcations to the appeal/adjudication protocol. We are still
working out the speciﬁcs of the modiﬁcations; we can say, however, the proposed changes will include
(in some shape or form) both of the following:
• having samples of appealed assessments adjudicated (in order to estimate the eﬀects of appeals
with greater eﬃciency);
• having some assessments adjudicated by the Topic Authority, regardless of whether or not they
were appealed.
Once our proposed modiﬁcations are ﬁnalized, we will circulate for further discussion.
7. Unit of Assessment. In 2010, as in 2009, we will be using a collection of Enron emails as the test
collection for the interactive task (see below for more on this year’s test collection). In evaluating the
eﬀectiveness of approaches to assessing the relevance of email messages, one must decide whether one
wants to assess eﬀectiveness at the message level (i.e.,treat the parent email together with all of its
attachments as the unit of assessment) or to assess eﬀectiveness at the document level (i.e., treat each
of the components of an email message (the parent email and each child attachment) as a distinct unit
of assessment.
In 2009, after much discussion (in which some participants argued in favor of message-level assessment
and others in favor of document-level assessment), we opted for an all-of-the-above approach that asked
5
participants to submit their results at the document level (in order to enable document-level analysis)
from which we would, by rule, derive message-level values (which would serve as the primary basis for
evaluation). We found that the approach worked reasonably well, but not without some uncertainty,
among both participants and ﬁrst-pass assessors, as to what sorts of information could be used, in
arriving at document-speciﬁc assessments, from other documents that belonged to the same message.
For the 2010 exercise, we will again gather document-level relevance assessments from which we can
derive message-level values. In the interest of eliminating uncertainty, we provide the following clariﬁ-
cations.
• An email attachment should be deemed relevant if it has content that meets the Topic Author-
ity’s deﬁnition of relevance; in making this determination, contextual information contained in
associated documents (parent email or sister attachments) should be taken into account.
• A parent email should be deemed relevant either if, in itself, it has content that meets the deﬁni-
tion of relevance or if any of its attachments meet that deﬁnition; again, contextual information
contained in all components of the email message should be taken into account.
• A message will count as relevant if at least one of its component documents (parent email or
attachments) has been found relevant.
• For purposes of scoring, the primary level will be the message-level; document-level analysis will
be supplementary.
8. Test Collection. As Gordon Cormack announced in his May 26 email to the Legal Track listserv,
we will be using a new version of the Enron collection for the 2010 interactive task (and learning
task); see Gordon’s email for additional information on the new version [3]. See below (Section 4.3)
for information on how to acquire the data set.
4 Further Speciﬁcs
We conclude the 2010 Interactive Guidelines with a review of speciﬁc requirements for registering and
executing the task. This section covers, in particular, the following: (i) task prerequisites and registration;
(ii) target topics; (iii) submission of results; (iv) task schedule; and (v) where to go for additional information.
4.1 Prerequisites & Registration
We welcome new and returning participants; prior participation in TREC or in the Legal Track is not a
prerequisite. By way of prerequisites, all that we ask is that those considering participation carefully review
these task guidelines (along with supporting materials, such as the 2008 and 2009 Guidelines [1] [2], the 2008
Legal Track Overview [6], and, when available, the 2009 Legal Track Overview [5]) in order to understand
the task requirements and expectations. If there are any questions regarding the task design, please do not
hesitate to contact Bruce Hedin (email address given below).
Registration for the interactive task is a matter of three steps.
1. Register your intent to participate in TREC 2010; do so by contacting the TREC Program Manager
at trec(at)nist.gov. Once your registration information has been processed, you will be added to the
mailing list for TREC participants and will receive a “Welcome” message containing other details
about participation in TREC.
2. Join the Legal Track mailing list, if you have not already done so. Contact oard (at) umd.edu to be
added to the list.
6
3. Send an email to Bruce Hedin, indicating that you will be participating in the interactive task. In the
email, also specify (i) the number of topics for which you would like to submit results (for more on
target topics, see Section 4.2) and (ii) a list of your preferred topics (together with some alternatives)
in order of preference. We will endeavor to give all teams their preferred topics, but, in the interest
of load-balancing among the Topic Authorities, we may have to ask some teams to take a topic other
than their ﬁrst preference. Email addresses for the Track Coordinators are as follows:
Gordon V. Cormack gvcormac (at) uwaterloo.ca;
Maura R. Grossman MRGrossman (at) wlrk.com;
Bruce Hedin bhedin (at) h5.com;
Douglas W. Oard oard (at) umd.edu.
In addition to the interactive task, the 2010 Legal Track also features a learning task; for additional infor-
mation on this task, see the Learning Task Guidelines [4].
4.2 Target Topics
The mock complaint (Complaint “K”) and the associated topics (301 – 304) will be released upon the oﬃcial
start of the exercise.
4.3 Acquisition of the Data Set
As the test collection for the 2010 interactive task, we will be using the set of documents that results from
message-level de-duping of the Enron emails. The collection can be downloaded, in both text and native
formats, from the following webpage.
http://durum0.uwaterloo.ca/trec/legal10/
The webpage noted above also provides the oﬃcial list of document IDs that are in-scope for the exercise
(i.e., are valid for submission). Please let track coordinators know if you have any questions regarding the
test collection.
4.4 Submission of Results
Speciﬁcs of the procedures and format for submitting results will be provided to participants in a separate
document. For present purposes, please note the following.
• Submissions must be made using Legal Track Interactive Task Results form, which will be accessible
from the TREC Information for Active Participants page.
• Each team should prepare and submit a single ﬁle containing results for all topics for which a team is
submitting results for evaluation.
• The submission ﬁle should list only documents found relevant to each target topic. Any document
included in the submission list for a given topic will be assumed to have been found relevant to that
topic; any document not included in the submission list for a topic will be assumed to have been found
not relevant to the topic.
• Submissions must be made by the deadline noted below (Section 4.5); submissions made prior to the
deadline will be accepted and are welcome.
• A team should submit one set of results for each of its target topics; it will be possible to obtain scores
for alternative result sets once the evaluation samples have been selected, reviewed, and adjudicated.
7
4.5 Task Schedule
The timeline for the 2010 interactive task follows.
Guidelines frozen; topics released 07/07/10
Window for task execution 07/07/10 – 09/06/10
Window for task registration closes 07/15/10
Deadline for submitting results 09/06/10
First-pass review of evaluation samples 09/07/10 – 09/24/10
Preliminary (pre-adjudication) scores released 09/29/10
Appeal & adjudication 09/30/10 – 10/29/10
Final (post-adjudication) scores released 11/05/10
Conference papers due 10/25/10 (estimate)
TREC 2010 11/16/10 – 11/19/10
Final papers due February 2011 (estimate)
4.6 Additional Information
The Legal Track website at http://trec-legal.umiacs.umd.edu/ contains links to additional resources and
background information. The track mailing list archives can be reached through a link from that page. For
further information on the interactive task in particular or the Legal Track more generally, please contact
one of the track coordinators:
Gordon V. Cormack gvcormac (at) uwaterloo.ca;
Maura R. Grossman MRGrossman (at) wlrk.com;
Bruce Hedin bhedin (at) h5.com;
Douglas W. Oard oard (at) umd.edu.
References
[1] J. R. Baron, B. Hedin, D. W. Oard, and S. Tomlinson. Final Interactive Task Guidelines, 2008. Available at
http://trec-legal.umiacs.umd.edu/2008InteractiveGuidelines.pdf.
[2] J. R. Baron, B. Hedin, D. W. Oard, and S. Tomlinson. Final Interactive Task Guidelines, 2009. Available at
http://trec-legal.umiacs.umd.edu/.
[3] G. V. Cormack. [Trec-legal] New dataset (same source) for TREC 2010 Legal Track. Email, May 26, 2010.
Available at http://lists.umiacs.umd.edu/pipermail/trec-legal/2010/000465.html.
[4] G. V. Cormack and M. R. Grossman. Learning Task Guidelines, 2010. Available at http://plg.uwaterloo.ca/ gv-
cormac/legal10.
[5] B. Hedin, S. Tomlinson, J. R. Baron, and D. W. Oard. Overview of the TREC 2009 Legal Track. In The
Eighteenth Text REtrieval Conference (TREC 2009) Proceedings , Forthcoming (July, 2010).
[6] D. W. Oard, B. Hedin, S. Tomlinson, and J. R. Baron. Overview of the TREC 2008 Legal Track. In The
Seventeenth Text REtrieval Conference (TREC 2008) Proceedings , November 2008.
8