TREC Legal T rack  Learning T ask
Final Guidelines (revision 0.0)
Gordon V. Cormack
Maura R. Grossman
Abstract
In the learning task, participants are given a “seed set” of documents from a
larger collection that have previously been assessed by TREC as responsive
or non-responsive to a legal discovery request. Using this information, partic-
ipants must (a) rank the documents in the larger collection from most likely
to least likely to be responsive; and (b) for each document, estimate the likeli-
hood of responsiveness as a probability. The ranking will be evaluated by how
well it places responsive documents before non-responsive ones, as assessed
by TREC. The likelihood estimate will be evaluated by how well it estimates
recall throughout the ranked list.
1 e-Discovery Context
The learning task models the use of automatic or semi-automatic meth-
ods to guide review strategy for the ﬁrst or later passes of a multi-stage
document review effort, organized as follows:
1. Preliminary search and asessment. The responding party an-
alyzes the production request. Using ad hoc methods the team
identiﬁes a seed set of potentially responsive documents, and as-
sesses each as responsive or not.
2. Learning by example. A learning method is used to rank the
documents in the collection from most to least likely to be respon-
sive to the production request, and to estimate this likelihood for
1
1 e-Discovery Context 2
each document. The input to the learning method consists of the
seed set, the assessments for the seed set, and the unranked col-
lection; the output is a ranked list consisting of the document
identifer and a probability of responsiveness for each document
in the collection.
The two components of learning by example – ranking and es-
timation – may be accomplished by the same method or by differ-
ent methods. Either may be automated or manual. For example,
ranking may be done using an information retrieval method or by
human review using a ﬁve-point scale. Estimation may be done in
the course of ranking or, for example, by sampling and reviewing
documents at representative ranks.
3. Review process. A review process may be conducted, with strat-
egy guided by the ranked list. One possible strategy is to review
documents in order, thus discovering as many responsive docu-
ments as possible for a given amount of effort. Another possible
strategy is triage: to review only mid-ranked documents, deem-
ing, without further review, the top-ranked ones to be responsive,
and the bottom-ranked ones to be non-responsive.
Review strategy may be guided not only by the order of the ranked
list, as outlined above, but also by the estimated effectiveness of
various alternatives. Consider the strategy of reviewing the top-
ranked documents. Where should a cut be made so that docu-
ments above the cut are reviewed and documents below are not?
For triage, where should the two necessary cuts be made?
Practically every review strategy decision boils down to the question,
Of this particular set of documents, how many are responsive
and how many are not?
An informed choice of where to make the cut demands that we know
how many documents both above and below the cut are responsive.
There is no single correct answer – the best choice depends on the rela-
tive risks, costs and beneﬁts of missing responsive documents or of re-
viewing or producing non-responsive documents. In discovery efforts,
2 TREC Context 3
the cost of failing to produce responsive documents is typically much
higher than the cost of producing non-responsive ones (unless they are
privileged!). The speciﬁc tradeoff will be different in almost every mat-
ter.
For this reason, we require not that the learning method make the
cut, but that it provide the necessary information to make the best cut
for the particular situation. To this end, we require an estimate of the
probability that any particular document is responsive. If the proba-
bility estimates are accurate, it follows that the number of responsive
documents in any set will be the sum of the probabilities associated
with the documents in the set.
Suppose the cost of missing a responsive document is estimated to
be $95 and the cost of reviewing a non-responsive one is $5. It there-
fore follows that the best strategy is to review whose documents whose
probability of relevance is above 5%, and none below. One simply has
to sum the estimates to ﬁnd the cut that makes this tradeoff.
When opposing counsel demands to know how many documents
were missed, or why they weren’t identiﬁed, the estimate yields a de-
fensible answer.
2 TREC Context
This task is part of the TREC 2010 Legal Track. TREC – The Text
Retrieval Conference – has the following goals:
• to encourage research in information retrieval based on large test
collections;
• to increase communication among industry, academia, and gov-
ernment by creating an open forum for the exchange of research
ideas;
• to speed the transfer of technology from research labs into com-
mercial products by demonstrating substantial improvements in
retrieval methodologies on real-world problems; and
• to increase the availability of appropriate evaluation techniques
for use by industry and academia, including development of new
evaluation techniques more applicable to current systems.
3 Task Details 4
The Legal Track, in its 5th year, pursues these goals within the context
of electronic discovery. The Learning task is a successor to the batch
task of TREC 2009. The principal differences are in focus, the require-
ment to rank every document in the corpus, and the requirement to
provide a likelihood estimate for every document in the corpus. In ad-
dition, the task uses the same collection and some of the same produc-
tion requests as its sister task, the TREC 2010 Legal Interactive Task,
to facilitate comparison.
3 T ask Details
There will be eight production requests, each using the Enron docu-
ment collection. For each request, the participating team will be given
the text of the request, guidelines for its interpretation, a seed set of
documents, and assessments for the seed documents.
The results for all eight requests must be encoded in a text ﬁle ac-
cording to the standard TREC format, where each line contains:
• requestid Q0 docid rank estP runid
requestid is a number assigned by TREC identifying the production
request. Q0 is a historical artifact of the TREC format. docid is a
TREC-assigned document identiﬁer. rank is the ranking of the doc-
ument by estP, where 1 is the most likely relevant document for the
request. estP is a probability estimate between 0.0 and 1.0. runid is a
unique identiﬁer for the submission, formed by joining
• a sequence of 3 or 4 characters identifying the team (composed by
participant)
• a sequence of 3 or 4 charecters identifying the method (composed
by participant)
• Capital “A” if the method is fully automated; capital “M” if the
method is fully manual, meaning the seed documents are not used
as input to any program; capital “T” if both automated and man-
ual methods are used.
4 Manner of participation 5
The task will use the EDRM Enron v2 collection, which may be down-
loaded without restriction from the Web. 1 in either EDRM XML or
PST formats. The document ids will be those from the EDRM XML for-
mat. Mapping ﬁles will be provided to convert information derivable
from the PST-format documents to document ids.
For the learning task, a document is considered to be either an email
message as a whole, or a particular attachment to an email message.
The EDRM XML version contains both native and text versions of each
document, each with a unique identiﬁer. The PST version contains the
complete email messages; participants will need to extract the attach-
ments from these messages and treat them as separate documents.
The Enron corpus contains many duplicate documents. For efﬁ-
ciency, submissions should refer to only the canonical document from
each set of duplicates, as deﬁned by TREC. 2 A mapping is provided
from all document identiﬁers to canonical documents, so participants
may eliminate duplicates prior to processing, or after the fact.
The EDRM download is approximately 100GB in size. As a con-
venience, TREC is providing to participants a download for the text
version of all canonical documents as a separate download (609 MB).
Furthermore, TREC is providing the native version of all canonical at-
tachments (7 GB).
4 Manner of participation
We hope to attract participants that use various combinations of man-
ual effort and technology. It is possible and desirable that a partici-
pating team employ two or more of the strategies, provided that the
efforts are organized to conform to the information ﬂow constraints.
That is, a group might complete a fully automated review, and then
undertake a technology-assisted review; or, a group might complete a
manual review, and then undertake a technology-assisted review. Or
a group might undertake manual and automated reviews concurrently,
provided no input to the automated system, including tuning, was done
by any individual having seen the production request or associated ma-
terials.
1 http://edrm.net/resources/data-sets/edrm-enron-email-data-set-v2
2 http://durum0.uwaterloo.ca/trec/legal10/
5 Evaluation Details 6
Teams are free – and encouraged – to participate also in the TREC
2010 Legal Interactive Task, which will have three production requests
and a privilege review.
5 Evaluation Details
The effectiveness of ranking will be evaluated separately from the ef-
fectiveness of estimation. Several measures will be computed for each.
The principal measures being considered to evaluate ranking are:
• Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves to display the trade-
off between missed responsive documents and produced non-responsive
documents (false negatives and false positives) for all posible cuts.
• Area under the ROC curve (AUC) to serve as a summary measure
of ranking effectiveness. AUC can be interpreted in terms of a
very simple game (see below).
• Precision and recall at speciﬁc cuts, such as 10, 1000, 10000 doc-
uments.
• R-Precision.
• Average Precision.
For estimation the principal measures being considered are:
• Root-mean-squared Average Recall Error (RMSRE). The RMS dif-
ference between estimated recall and actual recall, at all recall
levels.
• Information Gain (IG). An information-theoretic measure that cap-
tures both the accuracy of the estimates and the effectiveness of
the ranking. IG can be interpreted in terms of a very simple game
(see below).
• F1. The actual F1@K measure (used in other legal tasks) achieved
when K is the cut value that optimizes apparent F1@K.
• Apparent F1. The value of F1@K, if the estimates were accurate.
6 The Information Gain Game 7
6 The Information Gain Game
We illustrate the notion of information gain with a game. It is not
necessary to understand the theory behind it, as the rules and strategy
are simple.
• You are given a sequence of documents to review, in some arbi-
trary order;
• For each document, you must guess a numberestP between 0 and
1, which is your estimate of the likelihood that the document is
responsive. (It would be inadvisable to guess 0 or 1 exactly, as the
downside of an incorrect guess would be inﬁnite.)
• If the document turns out to be responsive, your score is
IG = 1 + log 2 estP
• If the document turns out to be non-responsive your score is
IG = 1 + log 2(1 − estP )
A strategy to play well has the following elements:
• If you think the document is responsive, choose estP > 1
2
• If you are pretty conﬁdent the document is responsive, choose
estP ≫ 1
2
• Don’t be overconﬁdent.
• Never choose estP = 1.
• If you think the document is non-responsive, choose estP < 1
2
• If you are pretty conﬁdent the document is non-responsive, choose
estP ≪ 1
2
• Don’t be overconﬁdent.
• Never choose estP = 0.
7 The AUC Game 8
The best possible score, on average, is achieved if estP is in fact an ac-
curate estimate of the probability. If you think the document is respon-
sive and you think there’s a65% chance you’re right, guessestP = 0.65.
If your guesses are sensiblee, you’ll get a positive averageIG score.
If you get a negative IG score, you would have been better off ﬂipping
a coin!
7 The AUC Game
The AUC game works like this:
• You are given a stack of documents, that you arrange with the
most likely to be responsive on top, and so on down to the least
likely on the bottom.
• For every responsive document and for every non-responsive doc-
ument in the stack, if the responsive document is above the non-
responsive one, you score a point; otherwise you score 0.
• Your AUC score is
AU C = points
R × N
were points is the total number of points you scored, R is the
number of responsive documents, and N is the number of non-
responsive documents.