TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New Searchland 
 
 
NEW SEARCHLAND RESORT & SPA, individually and on 
behalf of all others similarly situated, 
 
    P l a i n t i f f ,  
 
v. 
 
VOLTERON CORP., BULENE OFFSHORE DRILLING, 
INC., KEYWARD INTERNATIONAL, LTD., and 
KLUSTERING & CEMENTING TECHNOLOGIES, LLC. 
 
    Defendants. 
 
 
Civ. No. 
 
CLASS ACTION 
 
COMPLAINT 
 
DEMAND FOR JURY TRIAL 
 
 
Plaintiff NEW SEARCHLAND RESORT & SPA, individually and as representative of 
the class defined herein (the “Class”), brings this action against Defendants VOLTERON 
CORP., BULENE OFFSHORE DRILLING, INC, KEYWARD INTERNATIONAL LTD., and 
KLUSTERING & CEMENTING TECHNOLOGIES, LLC., and alleges as follows: 
 
NATURE OF THE ACTION 
1. This is a class action, brought pursuant to Rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil 
Procedure to recover damages suffered by Plaintiff and the Class members as a result of the oil 
spill that resulted from the explosion and fire aboard, and subsequent sinking of the mobile 
offshore drilling unit, the Bleak Horizon (a.k.a., the “Oil Rig”), on May 7, 2008, at about 10:00 
p.m. central time, on the outer Continental Shelf.  Following the sinking of the Bleak Horizon, 
tens of thousands of barrels per day of crude oil have been leaking from the oil well upon which 
the Oil Rig was performing completion operations, and from the pipe connected to it (the drill 
stack).  The fast moving oil slick now covers thousands of square miles and has caused 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-2- 
detrimental effects upon the Gulf of New Searchland’s marine environments, coastal 
environments and estuarine areas, which directly and indirectly support a wide array of income- 
producing activities. 
2. Plaintiff, on behalf of itself and all others similarly situated, brings this action for 
damages against Defendants. 
 
JURISDICTION AND VENUE 
3. This Court has jurisdiction over this class action pursuant to both (i) 28 U.S.C. 
§ 1332(d)(2) because the matter in controversy exceeds the sum or value of $5,000,000, 
exclusive of interest and costs, and it is a class action brought by citizens of a State that is 
different from the State where at least one of the Defendants is incorporated or does business; 
and (ii) 28 U.S.C.§ 1332(a) because Plaintiff and Defendants are citizens of different states and 
the amount in controversy exceeds $75,000, exclusive of interest and costs. 
4. This Court has jurisdiction over this matter pursuant to (i) 23 U.S.C. § 1331, 
because the claims asserted herein arise under the laws of the United States of America, 
including the laws of the State of New Searchland, that have been declared, pursuant to 43 
U.S.C. §§ 1331(f)(1) and 1333(a)(2), to be the law of the United States for that portion of the 
outer Continental Shelf from which the oil spill originated; and (ii) 43 U.S.C. § 1333(a)(1), 
which extends exclusive Federal jurisdiction to the outer Continental Shelf. 
5. Venue is proper in this judicial district pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1391(a) as a 
substantial part of the events and omissions giving rise to the claim occurred and a substantial 
part of property that is the subject of this action is situated in this judicial district. 
 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-3- 
PARTIES 
6. Plaintiff is the owner/operator of the New Searchland Resort & Spa located at 21 
Coastal Highway, New Searchland, NS.  The New Searchland Resort & Spa is a Five-Star hotel, 
resort and spa that caters primarily to wealthy tourists visiting New Searchland.  Plaintiff derives 
substantial income from beaches, coastal communities and local businesses of New Searchland 
that are popular to travelers and vacationers around the world. 
7. Defendant Volteron Corp. (“Volteron”) is a domestic corporation doing business 
in the State of New Searchland.  Volteron is incorporated in Delaware and its principal place of 
business is located in Samplingsburg, MD. 
8. Defendant Bulene Offshore Drilling, Inc. (“Bulene”) is a foreign corporation 
doing business in the State of New Searchland. 
9. Defendant Keyward International, Ltd. (“Keyward”) is a foreign corporation 
doing business in the State of New Searchland. 
10. Defendant Klustering & Cementing Technologies, LLC (“KCT”) is a foreign 
corporation doing business in the State of New Searchland. 
 
FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS 
11. On May 7, 2008, an explosion occurred on the Bleak Horizon floating oil rig that 
was located about 41 miles off the coast of New Searchland.   
12. The Bleak Horizon was at all times owned by Defendant Bulene and operated by 
Defendant Volteron.   
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-4- 
13. Bulene is the owner and/or operator of the Bleak Horizon, a semi-submersible 
mobile offshore drilling rig, which was performing completion operations for Volteron on the 
outer Continental Shelf at the site from which the oil spill originated on May 7, 2008. 
14. Volteron is the holder of a lease granted by the Minerals Management Service 
(“MMS”) that allows Volteron to drill for oil and perform oil production-related operations at the 
site of the oil spill, and on May 7, 2008, operated the oil well that is the source of the oil spill. 
15. According to Bulene’s web site, the Bleak Horizon was an ultra deepwater 
dynamic positioned semi-submersible drilling rig built in 2001 that could drill in water up to 
10,000 feet deep. 
16. At the time of the explosion, the Bleak Horizon was drilling an exploration well 
that was not producing, and was completing the concrete casing of a well drilled to a depth of 
18,000 feet. 
17. A Volteron official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not 
authorized to discuss the volume of reserves, confirmed reports that the amount of oil beneath 
the seabed that the Bleak Horizon was tapping was in the tens of millions of barrels. 
18. Prior to the explosion, KCT was engaged in cementing operations of the well and 
well cap. 
19. In an May 20, 2008 press release, KCT stated that it “performed a variety of 
services on the rig, including cementing, and had four employees stationed on the rig at the time 
of the accident,” and that it “had completed the cementing of the final production casing string in 
accordance with the well design approximately 20 hours prior to the incident.”  KCT had not yet 
placed “the final cement plug which would enable the planned temporary abandonment of the 
well.” 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-5- 
20. The cementing process is supposed to prevent oil and natural gas from escaping a 
well by filling gaps between the outside of the well pipe and the inside of the hole bored into the 
ocean floor. 
21. When cement develops cracks or does not set properly, oil and gas can escape, 
ultimately flowing out of control. 
22. Officials at Bulene have speculated that a pressure surge known in the oil and 
natural gas industry as a blowout may have triggered the explosion and fire. 
23. The explosion of the Bleak Horizon resulted in a massive fire and led to the 
probable deaths of seventeen crewmembers. 
24. After burning for more than a day, a second explosion on May 9, 2008 caused the 
Bleak Horizon to sink in approximately 5,000 feet of water. 
25. On or about May 10, 2008, the U.S. Coast Guard stated that no oil appeared to be 
escaping from the wellhead on the Gulf floor. 
26. On our about May 11, 2008, Defendants Volteron and Bulene discovered, with 
the use of remote operating vehicles, that oil was escaping from two leaks in a drilling pipe about 
5,000 feet below the surface.  The leaks were assumed to be releasing 1,000 barrels of oil a day 
at that time. 
27. With the use of remote operating vehicles on or about May 12, 2008, Defendants 
Volteron and Bulene attempted to switch on a “blowout valve,” or “blowout preventer,” which is 
part of a 50 foot tall and 18 foot wide housing on the sea floor.  All attempts to trigger the 
blowout valve have failed. 
28. Keyward manufactured and/or supplied the Bleak Horizon’s blowout preventer 
that failed to operate upon the explosion  and that should have prevented the oil spill.   
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-6- 
29. The blowout preventer was not equipped with a remote control shutoff device 
called an acoustic switch.  An acoustic switch allows the remote control triggering of a blowout 
preventer and is intended as a last resort safeguard device. 
30. Following the oil spill, Volteron and Bulene made several failed attempts to stop 
the oil release and to control and contain the spill. 
31. On May 16, 2008, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
(“NOAA”) reported that estimates of the oil release rate increased to 5,000 barrels (210,000 
gallons) per day based on surface observations and reports of a newly discovered leak in the 
damaged piping on the sea floor.  NOAA declared the oil spill a Spill of National Significance 
(“SONS”), which is defined as “a spill that, due to its severity, size, location, actual or potential 
impact on the public health and welfare or the environment, or the necessary response effort, is 
so complex that it requires extraordinary coordination of federal, state, local, and responsible 
party resources to contain and clean up the discharge” and allows greater federal involvement. 
32. Volteron filed an exploration plan with MMS, avoiding filing a more detailed 
site-specific plan.  Volteron outlined a worst-case scenario of a spill of 162,000 gallons per day.  
Volteron did not outline in its exploration plan how it would respond to a potential blowout 
scenario. 
33. The fire and explosion on the Bleak Horizon, its sinking and the resulting oil spill 
were caused by the combined and concurring negligence of Defendants, which renders them 
liable, jointly and severally, to the Plaintiff and the Class members for all their damages. 
34. The damages suffered by Plaintiff were caused by Defendants’ reckless 
indifference to, and intentional violations of, numerous statutes and regulations including, but 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-7- 
not limited to, statutes and regulations issued by OSHA and the United States Coast Guard, 
including the requirement to test the sub-sea blowout valve at regular intervals. 
35. Defendants knew of the dangers associated with deep water drilling and failed to 
take appropriate measures to prevent damage to New Searchland’s marine and coastal 
environments and estuarine areas, and the New Searchland “Coastal Zone” as that term is 
defined in 43 U.S.C. § 1331(e), where Plaintiff and the Class members derived substantial 
business revenue. 
36. Upon information and belief, Defendants intentionally and recklessly chose not to 
install the appropriate safety measures on the Bleak Horizon that, if installed, would have 
prevented or minimized the amount of oil spilled into the Gulf of New Searchland. 
37. Defendants have a long and well-known history of lobbying public officials for 
reduced, limited or lax environmental and safety standards and engaging in other activities aimed 
at negatively influencing or affecting anticipated or pending environmental and safety rules, 
regulations, legislation and amendments thereto that could have prevented the events that led to 
the fire, explosion and resulting oil spill that occurred on May 7, 2008. 
38. Defendants have a long and well-known history of engaging in efforts aimed at 
gaining access to and influencing public officials involved in establishing environmental and 
safety standards through campaign contributions and other election activities, endorsements, 
social or other contacts and quid-pro-quos.   
39. The spilled oil does not simply evaporate from the water’s surface and is causing 
dangerous environmental contamination of the Gulf of New Searchland and its shoreline, 
threatening New Searchland’s sensitive marine, wetland and estuarine areas. 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-8- 
40. The spilled oil also threatens one of New Searchland’s most financially important 
industries—tourism.  In 2009, New Searchland hosted approximately 80.3 million visitors who 
generated an economic impact of $57 billion on New Searchland’s economy. 
41. Much of the economic impact of tourism in New Searchland can be traced 
directly or indirectly to the coastal communities and local businesses that exist on or near New 
Searchland’s 663 miles of beaches popular to travelers and vacationers from around the world. 
42. In particular, the City of New Searchland, New Searchland and the businesses 
operating therein are vitally dependant on the tourism industry.  The attractions, hotels/inns/spas 
and resorts, golf courses, fishing charters, dive shops, eco-tour operators, retail stores, marinas, 
campgrounds, and restaurants are just some of the New Searchland businesses that owe their 
economic survival to vacationing tourists. 
43. Once it became clear that early oil spill containment efforts had failed, the tourism 
industry in New Searchland was immediately affected.  Businesses along the New Searchland 
panhandle and down the New Searchland west coast that cater to vacationers began experiencing 
an unusually high rate of cancellations of reservations and bookings.  Despite the fact that no oil 
had actually washed up on New Searchland beaches, the news reports were ominous and tourists, 
particularly those from out of state, were simply unwilling to take any chances that their 
vacations might be adversely affected by the oil spill. 
44. On June 8, 2008, the United States Coast Guard reported that a small portion of 
the oil spill had entered the Gulf of New Searchland’s “loop current” and that oil from the spill 
could reach the New Searchland Straits within a week.  Almost immediately, New Searchland 
businesses suffered from even fewer numbers of tourists.  Moreover, there have been wide 
reports of cancellations of upcoming summer travel to New Searchland. 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-9- 
45. Plaintiff’s business relies almost exclusively on tourism to generate revenue.  As a 
result of the oil spill and the detrimental effect it has played on the tourism trade in New 
Searchland, Plaintiff has experienced a significant dip in guest registrations that appears to be 
getting worse by the day.  This result in guest registrations has resulted in significant lost 
business revenue with no immediate sign of relief. 
46. The oil spill and the contamination have caused and will continue to cause loss of 
revenue to businesses such as Plaintiff’s and the Class members that are economically dependent 
on New Searchland tourism.   
47. There are many other potential harmful impacts from the oil spill that are not 
currently known, and Plaintiff reserves the right to amend this Complaint once additional 
information becomes available. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S CLASS ACTION ALLEGATIONS 
48. Plaintiff brings this action as a class action pursuant to Rules 23(a) and 23(b)(3) 
of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure on behalf of itself and all persons similarly situated, who 
are members of the following Class: 
All hotels, spas, resorts, inns, bed and breakfasts, and motels that 
derive income and profits from the New Searchland “Coastal 
Zone” as that term is defined in 43 U.S.C. § 1331(e), and who have 
sustained any legally cognizable loss and/or damages as a result of 
the May 7, 2008 fire and explosion and resulting oil spill that 
occurred aboard the Bleak Horizon mobile offshore drilling rig. 
49. Excluded from the Class are the Defendants in this action, and any entities in 
which the Defendants have a controlling interest, any officers, directors or employees of any of 
the Defendants; any judge or judicial officer assigned to this matter and his or her immediate 
family; and any legal representative, successor, or assign of any excluded person or entities. 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-10- 
50. The members of the Class are so numerous that joinder of all members is 
impracticable.  Although the precise number of Class Members is not yet known, Plaintiff avers 
that the Class members number in the hundreds, if not thousands. 
51. Common questions of law and fact exist as to all members of the Class and 
predominate over any questions affecting solely individual members of the Class.  Among the 
common questions are: 
a. Whether Defendants owed a duty of care to Plaintiffs and the Class 
members to ensure the safe functioning of the Bleak Horizon and its equipment; 
b. Whether Defendants knew or should have known of the risk of fire, 
explosion or spill presented by the Bleak Horizon and its equipment; 
c. Whether Defendants failure to use reasonable care caused the fire, 
explosion, oil spill and the resulting damages to Plaintiff and the Class members; 
d. Whether Defendants’ conduct created a nuisance for Plaintiff and the 
Class members; 
e. Whether Defendants’ conduct constitutes an abnormally dangerous 
activity; 
f. Whether Plaintiff and the Class members are entitled to damages pursuant 
to the claims alleged herein. 
52. Plaintiff’s claims are typical of the claims of the members of the Class, which all 
arise from the same operative facts and are based on the same legal theories. 
53. Plaintiff will fairly and adequately protect the interests of the members of the 
Class.  Plaintiff has retained counsel competent and experienced in handling class and complex 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-11- 
litigation involving oil and gas matters.  Neither Plaintiff nor its counsel have any interests that 
would prevent them from vigorously pursuing these claims. 
54. This action should be maintained as a class action because the prosecution of 
separate actions by individual members of the Class would create a risk of inconsistent or 
varying adjudications with respect to individual members that would establish incompatible 
standards of conduct for the parties opposing the Class, as well as a risk of adjudications with 
respect to individual members that would, as a practical matter, be dispositive of the interests of 
other members not parties to the adjudications or substantially impair or impede their ability to 
protect their interests. 
55. A class action is superior to other available methods for the fair and efficient 
adjudication of this controversy.  The interest of the Class members in individually controlling 
the prosecution of separate claims against Defendants is small.  There will be no difficulty in the 
management of this action as a class action. 
 
CAUSES OF ACTION 
COUNT 1 – NEGLIGENCE 
56. Plaintiff, on behalf of itself and the Class members, incorporates by reference and 
realleges each allegation above as is fully set forth herein.   
57. Defendants owed a duty of care to Plaintiffs and the Class members to ensure the 
safe operation of the Bleak Horizon, and to avoid the fire, explosion and resulting oil spill that 
occurred on May 7, 2008. 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-12- 
58. Defendants knew or should have known that the Bleak Horizon presented a 
serious risk of fire, explosion and resulting oil spill, which could, in turn, would cause harm to 
persons, property and the natural environment. 
59. Defendants knew or should have known that certain equipment utilized by the 
Bleak Horizon was defective or not properly functioning. 
60. Defendants knew or should have known that the cement used in the cementing of 
the wellhead was defective and/or that the cementing of the wellhead was not done properly. 
61. The fire, explosion and resulting oil spill were caused by the concurrent 
negligence of the Defendants, including, without limitation, the following: 
a. Failure to properly inspect and monitor the Bleak Horizon and its 
equipment; 
b. Failure to properly and safely maintain the Bleak Horizon and its 
equipment; 
c. Failure to properly and safely operate the Bleak Horizon and its 
equipment; 
d. Failure to promulgate, implement and enforce rules and regulations, 
policies and procedures pertaining to the safe operation of the Bleak Horizon; 
e. Failure to properly train and license personnel operating the Bleak 
Horizon; 
f. Failure to take adequate precautionary measures to prevent fire, explosion 
and oil spills; 
g. Failure to properly supervise the manner in which exploration, drilling, 
extraction, storage and transportation of fossil fuels were conducted; 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-13- 
h. Failure to properly design, manufacture, and install the blowout valve or 
blowout preventer; 
i. Failure to employ an acoustic switch in the blowout valve or blowout 
preventer; 
j. Failure to ensure that the concrete casing was sufficient; 
k. Failure to properly cement the well head and final production casing string 
l. Failing to take appropriate action to avoid or mitigate the accident; 
m. Failure to timely warn; 
n. Such other acts of negligence and omissions as will be shown at the trial 
of this matter; all of which are in violation of the laws of New Searchland and Federal Law 
applicable to the outer Continental Shelf. 
62. As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ negligent conduct, Defendants 
have caused or will cause Plaintiff and the Class members to suffer and continue to suffer 
financial and economic loss, including, but not limited to, lost business profits in an amount to be 
determined at trial. 
63. Defendants are further liable under the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur because the 
fire, explosion and sinking of the Bleak Horizon, and the consequent oil spill, could not have 
occurred in the absence of the negligence of Defendants. 
64. Plaintiff and the Class members are entitled to a judgment finding Defendants 
liable to Plaintiff and the Class members for damages suffered as a result of Defendants’ 
negligence and awarding Plaintiff and the Class members adequate compensation therefore in 
amounts to be determined by the trier of fact. 
 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-14- 
COUNT II – NUISANCE 
65. Plaintiff, on behalf of itself and the Class members, incorporates by reference and 
realleges each allegation above as is fully set forth herein. 
66. The actions of Defendants, as described above, resulted in an invasion by a 
substance—oil and other pollutants—that interfered and continues to interfere with the Plaintiff’s 
and Class members’ rights to enjoy their property and caused hurt, inconvenience, and/or 
damage to the Plaintiff and Class members. 
67. The nuisance created by Defendants caused special damages to Plaintiff in which 
the public does not participate. 
68. The above described injuries and damages to the Plaintiff and the Class members 
were proximately caused by said nuisance. 
69. Plaintiff and the Class members are entitled to a judgment finding Defendants 
liable to Plaintiff and the Class members for damages suffered as a result of Defendants’ 
nuisance and awarding Plaintiff and the Class members adequate compensation therefore in 
amounts determined by the trier of fact. 
 
COUNT III – STRICT LIABILITY 
FOR ABNORMALLY OR ULTRA-HAZARDOUS ACTIVITY 
70. Plaintiff, on behalf of itself and the Class members, incorporates by reference and 
realleges each allegation above as is fully set forth herein.   
71. Defendants’ drilling of highly volatile and toxic fuel constitutes an abnormally or 
ultra-hazardous activity. 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-15- 
72. Defendants’ drilling of highly volatile and toxic fuel within a relatively short 
distance from the shoreline inherently presents a high degree of risk and likelihood of substantial 
harm to persons, land and property. 
73. Due to the nature of Defendants’ activity, the associated high risks could not have 
been eliminated through the exercise of reasonable care. 
74. The injuries and damages sustained by Plaintiff and the Class members is exactly 
the kind of foreseeable harm posed, the possibility of which made Defendants’ activities 
abnormally dangerous. 
75. The injuries and damages to the Plaintiff and the Class members were 
proximately caused by said abnormally dangerous and/or ultra hazardous activity. 
76. Plaintiff and the Class members are entitled to a judgment finding Defendants 
liable to Plaintiff and the Class members for damages, including punitive damages, suffered as a 
result of Defendants’ abnormally dangerous activities and awarding Plaintiff and the Class 
members adequate compensation therefore in amounts to be determined by the trier of fact. 
 
COUNT IV – STRICT PRODUCTS LIABILITY FOR MANUFACTURING DEFECT 
77. Plaintiff, on behalf of itself and the Class members, incorporates by reference and 
realleges each allegation above as is fully set forth herein.   
78. Defendant KCT manufactured and/or supplied the Bleak Horizon’s blowout 
preventer and blowout valve. 
79. Defendant KCT’s blowout preventer failed to operate properly or at all, at the 
time of or following the explosion, and this failure caused or contributed to the oil spill. 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-16- 
80. Defendant KCT’s blowout preventer was defective because it failed to operate as 
intended. 
81. As a result of the blowout preventer’s product defect, oil was released from the 
Bleak Horizon mobile offshore drilling unit thereby causing injury to Plaintiffs and the Class 
members. 
82. Defendant KCT’s blowout preventer was in a defective condition and 
unreasonably dangerous to Plaintiff when the blowout preventer left Defendant KCT’s control. 
83. At all times, Defendant KCT’s blowout preventer was used in the manner 
intended. 
84. By reason of the foregoing, Plaintiff and the Class members incurred damages, 
including but not limited to lost business profits, in an amount to be determined at trial. 
85.  By reasons of the foregoing, Plaintiff and the Class members are entitled to 
compensatory and punitive damages. 
 
COUNT V – STRICT LIABILITY 
PURSUANT TO NEW SEARCHLAND STATUTE § 376.313 
86. Plaintiff, on behalf of itself and the Class members, incorporates by reference and 
realleges each allegation above as is fully set forth herein.   
87. At all relevant times, Defendants owned, operated and/or maintained the mobile 
offshore drilling unit Bleak Horizon that caught on fire and exploded on May 7, 2008.  
Following the explosion and fire, the Bleak Horizon sunk resulting in the continuous discharge 
of crude oil from the well upon which the rig had been performing completion operations.  
88. At all relevant times, Defendants had a statutory duty to Plaintiff to maintain and 
operate the Bleak Horizon so as not to create or continue hazardous conditions due to the 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-17- 
discharge of pollutants as defined by New Searchland Statutes §§ 376.301(1), 376.301(11) and 
376.301(13). 
89. At all relevant times, Defendants breached their statutory duty to Plaintiff by 
discharging, or allowing to be discharged, crude oil into and upon the Gulf of New Searchland 
and allowing the massive oil spill to migrate into marine environments, coastal environments and 
estuarine areas that are used directly or indirectly by Plaintiff for tourism-related activities and 
other income-generating endeavors in violation of New Searchland Statutes §§ 376.30 to 
376.317.  Defendants are strictly liable to Plaintiff under § 376.313(3) New Searchland Statutes, 
which provides: 
[N]othing contained in §§ 376.30-376.317 prohibits any person 
from bring a cause of action in a court of competent jurisdiction for 
all damages resulting from a discharge or other condition of 
pollution covered by §§ 376.30-376.317.  Nothing in this chapter 
shall prohibit or diminish a party’s right to contribution from other 
parties jointly or severally liable for a prohibited discharge of 
pollutants or hazardous substances or other pollution conditions.  
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (4) or subsection (5), in 
any such suit, it is not necessary for such a person to plead or 
prove negligence in any form or manner.  Such person need only 
plead and prove the fact of the prohibited discharge or other 
pollutive condition and that it has occurred. 
90. As the direct and proximate result of Defendants’ breach of statutory duty to the 
Plaintiff, the oil spill originating from the Bleak Horizon has resulted in detrimental effects upon 
the Gulf of New Searchland’s marine environments, coastal environments and estuarine areas 
that are used, directly or indirectly, by Plaintiff for income generating endeavors. 
91. By reason of the foregoing, Plaintiff and the Class members incurred damages, 
including but not limited to lost business profits, in an amount to be determined at trial. 
92. By reasons of the foregoing, Plaintiff and the Class members are entitled to 
compensatory and punitive damages. 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-18- 
 
COUNT VI – UNSEAWORTHY 
93. Upon information and belief, due to the gross negligence and fault of the 
Defendants, either singularly or jointly or by some combination of Defendants, the Bleak 
Horizon was unseaworthy and unfit for the jobs and tasks required of her, which unseaworthy 
condition caused or substantially contributed to the explosion and vessel sinking described 
herein. 
94. By virtue of the Defendants’ callous and willful disregard for the conditions of the 
Bleak Horizon, which condition was either caused by, known to or should have been known to 
Defendants, Plaintiff and the Class members are entitled to punitive damages in an amount to be 
determined by the Court. 
95. General maritime law principles are applicable to the claims asserted herein. 
 
PRAYER FOR RELIEF 
WHEREFORE, Plaintiff New Searchland Resort & Spa , individually and on behalf of the 
Class members, demand judgment against Defendants, jointly and severally, as follows: 
a. An order certifying the Class, appointing Plaintiff as Class Representative, 
and appointing undersigned counsel as counsel for the Class; 
b. Economic and compensatory damages in amounts to be determined at 
trial, but not less than the $5,000,000 required by the Class Action Fairness Act, which 
establishes one of this Court’s bases of jurisdiction to hear this case; 
c. Punitive damages as permitted by law; 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-19- 
d. Reasonable costs and expenses incurred in this action, including attorneys’ 
fees and expert fees;  
e. Pre-judgment and post-judgment interest at the maximum rate allowable 
by law; 
f. Such other and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper. 
 
JURY TRIAL DEMANDED 
Plaintiff hereby demands a trial by jury. 
 
 
Dated: New Searchland, NS 
  July 6, 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-20- 
PLAINTIFFS’ REQUESTS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS 
 
Pursuant to Rule 34(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, plaintiffs New Search Land 
Resort & Spa, et al., hereby request that defendants Volteron Corp., Bulene Offshore Drilling, 
Inc., Keyward International, Ltd., and Klustering & Cementing Technologies, LLC (collectively, 
the “Defendants”), produce all responsive documents requested herein at the offices of the 
undersigned counsel as soon as practicable. 
 
INSTRUCTIONS 
 
1. These requests require the production of all re sponsive documents within the sole or joint 
possession, custody, or control of the Defendants, including their agents, departments, attorneys, 
directors, officers, employees, consultants, investigators, insurance companies, or any other 
persons subject to Defendants’ custody or control.  
 
2. All documents that respond, in whole or in pa rt, to any portion of these Requests must be 
produced in their entirety, including all attachments and enclosures. 
 
3. For purposes of these requests, the words us ed are considered to have, and should be 
understood to have, their ordinary, everyday meanings.  Plaintiffs refer Defendants to any 
dictionary in the event that the Defendants assert that the wording of a request is vague, 
ambiguous, unintelligible, or confusing. 
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
4. The words “and,” “or,” “each,” “any,” “all,” “r efer,” and “discuss,” shall be construed in 
their broadest form, and the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the 
singular, whenever necessary to bring within the scope of these Requests all documents (defined 
below) that might otherwise be construed to be outside their scope. 
 
5. “Person” or “individual” means any natural persons, corporations, firms, partnerships, 
unincorporated associations, trusts, and any other legal entity.  
 
6. The term “relating to” means in whole or  in part constituting, containing, concerning, 
discussing, describing, analyzing, identifying, or stating. 
 
7. The terms “plan” or “plans” mean tentat ive and preliminary proposals, recommendations, 
or considerations, whether or not finalized or authorized, as well as those that have been adopted. 
 
8. The terms “response” or “responses” mean an action considered or done in answer, reply, 
or reaction to something else, whether tentative and preliminary, proposed, recommended or 
planned, whether or not finalized or authorized, as well as those that have actually been 
performed.  
 
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-21- 
9. Solely for the purpose of the TREC 2010 Le gal Track, the term “Defendants” includes 
the named companies above, as well as all other companies or persons whose records are found 
in the TREC Legal Track Enron Test Collection. 
 
10. Solely for the purpose of the TREC 2010 Legal Track, “document” means all data, 
information or writings stored in the TREC Legal Track Enron Test Collection, including 
without limitation:  any written, electronic or computerized files, data or software; memoranda; 
emails; correspondence; OCR scanned images; voice mail or voice recordings; communications; 
reports; summaries; studies; analyses; evaluations; notes or notebooks; indices; spreadsheets; 
logs; books; pamphlets; binders; calendar or diary entries; ledger entries; press clippings; graphs; 
tables; charts; printouts; drawings; maps; meeting minutes; transcripts.  The term “document” 
encompasses all metadata associated with each document.  The term also includes all drafts 
associated with any particular document. 
 
 
FIRST SET OF REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION 
 
Plaintiffs request that the Defendants produce all responsive documents for the following topics: 
 
301. All documents or communications that describe , discuss, refer to, report on, or relate to 
onshore or offshore oil and gas drilling or extraction activities, whether past, present or 
future, actual, anticipated, possible or potential, including, but not limited to, all business 
and other plans relating thereto, all anticipated revenues therefrom, and all risk 
calculations or risk management analyses in connection therewith. 
  
302. All documents or communications that describe , discuss, refer to, report on, or relate to 
actual, anticipated, possible or potential responses to oil and gas spills, blowouts or 
releases, or pipeline eruptions, whether past, present or future, including, but not limited 
to, any assessment, evaluation, remediation or repair activities, contingency plans and/or 
environmental disaster, recovery or clean-up efforts. 
 
303. All documents or communications that describe , discuss, refer to, report on, or relate to 
activities, plans or efforts (whether past, present or future) aimed, intended or directed at 
lobbying public or other officials regarding any actual, pending, anticipated, possible or 
potential legislation, including but not limited to, activities aimed, intended or directed at 
influencing or affecting any actual, pending, anticipated, possible or potential rule, 
regulation, standard, policy, law or amendment thereto. 
 
 
DOCUMENTS TO BE WITHHELD ON THE BASIS OF PRIVILEGE 
 OR OTHER APPLICABLE PROTECTION 
 
Pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(b)(5), Defendants may withhold documents or 
communications that are otherwise discoverable by claiming that the documents or 
communications are privileged, or subject to protection as attorney work-product or otherwise, 
provided that the party expressly makes the claim.   
TREC 2010 Legal Track – Complaint K 
-22- 
 
304. Should Defendants choose to withhold  from production any documents or 
communications in the TREC Legal Track Enron Collection on the basis of a claim of 
privilege, attorney work-product, or any other applicable protection, they should identify 
all such documents or communications. 
  
Important procedural note specific to Topic 304:  Solely for the purpose of the TREC 2010 
Legal Track, participants who choose to submit results for Topic 304 should identify any and all 
documents or communications in the TREC Legal Track Enron Collection that are subject to a 
claim of privilege, attorney work-product, or other applicable protection, regardless of whether 
they are responsive to any of the Requests for Production specified above. 